 disappears in the mist."Will you come and see me to-morrow?" he asked suddenly."We had better not see each other every day," she said; "still, I don'tsee there would be any harm if you came to see me in the afternoon."Her conscience drowsed like this heavy, somnolent evening, and a redmoon rose behind the tall trees."The time will come," he said, "when you will hate me, Evelyn.""I don't think I shall be as unjust as that. Good-bye, dear, theafternoon has passed very pleasantly."CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUROwen had telegraphed to her and she had come at once. But how callousand unsympathetic she was. If people knew what she was, no one wouldspeak to her. If Owen knew that she had desired his mother's death ...But had she? She had only thought that, if Lady Asher were not torecover, it were better that she died before she, Evelyn, arrived atRiversdale. As the carriage drove through the woods she noticed thatthey were empty and silent, save for the screech of one incessant bird,and she thought of the dead woman's face, and contrasted it with thesummer time.The house stood on the side of some rising ground in the midst of thegreen park. Cattle were grazing dreamily in the grass, which grew richand long about a string of ponds, and she could see Owen walking underthe colonnade. As the carriage came round the gravel space, his eyessought her in the brougham, and she knew the wild and perplexed look onhis face."No, don't let's go into the house unless you're tired," he said, andthey walked down the drive under the branches, making, they knew notwhy, for the open park. "This is terrible, isn't it? And this beautifulsummer's day too, not a cloud in the sky, not a wind in all the air. Howpeaceful the cattle are in the meadow, and the swans in the pond. But weare unhappy. Why is this? You say that it is the will of God. That is noanswer. But you think it is?"Fearing to irritate him, she did not speak, but he would not be put off,and she said--"Do not let us argue, Owen, dear. Tell me about it. It was quiteunexpected?""She had been in ill-health, as you know, for some time. Let us go thisway."He led her through the shrubbery and through the wicket into the meadowswhich lay under the terrace, and, thinking of the dead woman, shewondered at the strange, somnolent life of the cattle in the meadows andthe swans on the pond. The willows, as if exhausted by the heat, seemedto bend under the stream, and their eyes followed the lines of the woodsand looked into the burning blue of the sky, striving to read the secretthere. A rim of moist earth under their feet, and above their heads theinfinite blue! The stillness of the summer was in every blade of grass,in every leaf, and the pond reflected the sky and willows in hard,immovable reflections. An occasional ripple of the water-fowl in thereeds impressed upon them the mystery of Nature's indifference to humansuffering."In that house behind that colonnade she lies dead. Good God! isn't itawful! We shall never see her. But you think we shall?""Owen, dear, let as avoid all discussion. She was a good woman. She wasvery good to me.""I haven't told you that it was by her wish that I sent for you. Shewanted to ask you to promise to marry me.... I told her that I had askedyou, and that in a way we were engaged. I could not say more. You seemedunsettled, you seemed to wish to get out of your promise--is not thatso?"Evelyn thought of the scene by Lady Asher's bedside that an accident hadsaved her from. Marriage was more than ever impossible. What should shehave said if Lady Asher had not died before she arrived? The dyingwoman's eyes, the dying woman's voice! Good heavens! what would she havesaid? But she had considered nothing. After glancing at the telegram,she had told Merat to pack a few clothes, and had rushed away. Shepondered the various excuses she might have sent. She might have saidshe was not in when the telegram came, she had only just caught thetrain as it was; if she had not got the telegram before eleven o'clockshe would have been safe. But all that was past now, Lady Asher had diedbefore she arrived. It were better that she had died--anything werebetter rather than that scene should have taken place; for she could nothave promised to marry Owen. What would she have done? Refused whilelooking into her dying eyes, or run out of the room?"You don't answer me, Evelyn.""Owen, don't press me. Enough has been said on that subject. This is notime to discuss such questions.""But it is Evelyn--it was her dearest wish.... Is it then impossible?Have you entirely ceased to care?""No, Owen, I'm very fond of you. But you don't really want to marry me,it is because your mother wished it."His face changed expression, and she knew that he was not certain on thepoint himself."Yes, Evelyn, I do, indeed I do;" and convinced for the moment that whathe said was true, he took her hands, and looking at her he added, "Itwas her wish, and if what you believe be true, she is listening now frombehind that blue sky."Both were trembling, and while the swans floated by, they considered thedepth of blue contained in the sky. He was taken with a little dread,and was surprised to find in himself a vague, haunting belief in thepossibility of an after life. Suddenly his self-consciousness fell fromhim, was merged in his instinct of the woman."Evelyn, if I don't marry you I shall lose you. I cannot lose you, thatwould be to lose everything. I don't ask any questions, whether you likeUlick Dean, nor even what your relations are. I only want to know if youwill marry me."He read in her eyes that the tale of their love was ended, and heard hisfuture life ring hollow. It seemed strange that at such a moment theserene swans should float about them, that the water-fowl should move inand out of the reeds, and that the green park and the cloudless sky werelike painted paper."Then everything is over, everything I had to live for, all is a blank.But when you sent me away before, you had to take me back; you're not awoman who can live without a lover.""It is difficult, I know.""What has come between us, tell me? This fellow Ulick Dean or religiousscruples?""I have no right to talk about religious scruples.""Then it is this man. You love him, you've ceased to care for me, andyou ask me to barter my right to kiss you, to take you in my arms, sothat I may remain your friend." "Why, Evelyn, have you got tired of me?""But I have not got tired of you, Owen. I am very fond of you.""Yes, but you don't care any more for me to make love to you.""Of course it is not the same as it was in the beginning, but there isaffection.""When passion is dead, all is dead, the rest is nothing."It seemed so shameful that he should suffer like this, and she strove torouse herself out of her stony determination. She was like one upon arampart; she could see the surrounding country, but could not escape toit; this rampart was the instinct, in which Nature had shut her soul.But she could not bear to see him cry."Oh, Evelyn, this cannot be."Then, feeling that the reality was too brutal, she yielded to thetemptation to disguise the truth."I don't know what I shall do, Owen; there would be no use makingpromises.""Then you do love me a little, Evelyn?""Yes, Owen, you must never doubt that. I shall always be fond of you;remember that, whatever happens.""Yes, I know, as a friend. Look round! the earth and the sky are quiet,and one day we shall be quiet too, only that is sure."As they walked towards the house, their self-consciousness rose to sohigh a pitch that the park and house seemed to them like a thinillusion, a sort of painted paper reality, which might fall to piecesat any moment. He thought how little were the hours between the presentmoment and the moment when she would be taken from him. Whereas she wasthinking that these hours would never pass. She realised the long hoursbefore the sunlight waned. She thought of their lonely dinner and theirevening after it. All that while she would witness his grief for thelove that had gone from her, a love which she could no more give thanshe could once withhold. The great green park lay before their eyes,they strayed through the woods talking of her Isolde. He had not seenthe performance. He had been called away the day she played it, but hispockets were full of the articles that had been written about her. Theleaves of the beech trees shimmered in the steady sunlight, and theycould see the green park through the drooping branches. She oftendetected a sob in his voice, and once, while sitting under a cedar treeat the edge of the terrace, he had to turn aside to hide his tears, andthe sadness of everything made her sick and ill.They had tea in the west hall. Owen had ceased to complain, and she hadbegun to think that she could not give him up entirely.The day had passed somehow; dinner was over. Around the green park thelast light of the sunset grew narrower, and the cattle fadedmysteriously into the gathering gloom. Owen held converse with himself,but with recognition of the fact that he was listened to by the secondsubject of his discourse, and that they themselves were his ideas, thefiguration of his teaching, endowed his philosophy with a dramaticintensity."How you used to hang round my neck and listen with eager nervous eyes.You always had the genius of exaltation. You were wonderful; I watchedyou, I understood you, I appreciated you; you were a marvellous jewel Ihad found, and of which I was excessively proud. I hardly lived at allfor myself. You were my life; my life lived in you. Every time I went tosee you, every appointment was a thrill, a wonder, a mystery. But it wasnot until you took me back after that separation at Florence that I sankinto the depths of love. Then I became like a diver in the deep sea.What I had known before were but the shallows of passion. What I feltafter Florence was the translucid calm of the ocean's depth. I lived inthe light of an inner consciousness, seeing you always, your face alwaysbefore me, and my whole being held in a rapt devotion, aself-sufficiency, an exaltation beyond the reach of words. Oh, Evelyn, Ihave been extraordinarily in love. But all this is nothing to you; iteven bores you.""No, Owen, no, but you don't understand."The desire to tell him the truth came up in her throat, but the momentshe sought to express it in words it became untruth, and it was to saveherself from falsehood that she remained silent."I knew my mistake, but the temptation was irresistible. I wanted so totell you that I loved you. I could not deny myself, effusion, tears,aspiration. I gained two very wonderful years, and so I lost you. Iwonder if any lover would have the courage to forswear these joys sothat he might retain his mistress? Would any mistress be worthy of thesacrifice? 'Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay.'""Owen, dear, you're very cruel. Why do you speak like that? I shallnever cease to love you. Owen, dear, you don't hate me?" she said,turning towards him.The silence was intense. It seemed to enter her ears and eyes like wateror fire, and with dim sight and a dissolution of personal control of herbody, she was moved towards him, and without any sort of thrill ofdesire she was drawn, almost thrown at his feet.She accepted his kisses wearily. There was a strange look in her eyeswhich he could not interpret, and she could not confide her secret, andthere was an inexpressible sadness in these last kisses, and Owen'sheart seemed to stand still when he said,--"Her last wish was our marriage; she would be glad if she could see us."Evelyn hid her face on his shoulders several times. He thought she wasweeping, but her eyes remained dry. He came to her room that evening,and now that they were lovers again, it seemed to him impossible thatshe could refuse to marry him. But she stood looking at him, absorbed,in the presence of her future life, her eyes full of a strange farewell.He could extort no words from her, and her eyes retained their strangemelancholy till her departure; his last memory of her visit was theirmelancholy.CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVEThe forces within her were at truce. She was conscious of a suspensionof hostilities. The moment was one in which she saw, as in a mirror, herpoor, vague little soul in its hopeless wandering through life. She drewback, not daring to see herself, and then was drawn forward by a febrilecuriosity. She felt towards them so differently that she could not thinkof herself as the same person when she was with Owen as she was when shewas with Ulick. She remembered what she had heard the "dresser" say, andshe remembered the sin. But apart from the deception she practised uponboth men, there was the wrong-doing. Her conscience did not assail hernow; but she knew that she would suffer to-morrow or next day. Thatsense of sin which she could not obliterate from her nature would riseto her lips like a salt wave, and poison her life with its bitterness,and she asked herself vain questions: Why had she left her father? Whyhad she two lovers? Why did she rise to seek things that made herunhappy? She thought of yesterday's journey to see a dying woman, and ofto-night's performance of "Tristan and Isolde." What an unhappy,maddening jingle. The bitter wave of conscience, which rose to her lipsand poisoned her taste, forced from her an avowal that she would mendher life. She foresaw nothing but deception, and easily imagined thatnot a day would pass without lies. All her life would be a lie, and whenher nature rose in vehement revolt, she looked round for means to freeherself from the fetters and chains in which she had locked herself.Thinking of Owen, she vowed that it must not happen again. But whatexcuse would she give? Should she tell him that Ulick was her lover?That was the only way, only it seemed so brutal. Even so she would havea lover; and strictly speaking, she ought to send them both away. Veryprobably that is what she would do in the end.... In the meantime, shewould keep them both on! Her face contracted in an expression of terrorand disgust. Had her moralising, then, ended in such miserableselfishness as this?To escape from her thoughts she looked out at the landscape, hoping itwould distract her. But she could take no interest in it. Yesterday ithad seemed so beautiful, but to-day it was all reversed, and the lightwas different. She preferred to remember it. She thought that they mustbe nearing the river, and she remembered how in one place it ran round afield, making a silver horse shoe in the green land, they had crossed ittwice in the space of a quarter of a mile; then it followed the railway,placid, docile, reflecting the trees and sky. Then like a child it wassoon taken with a new idea; it ran far away out of sight, and Evelynthought it would never return. But it came back again, turbulent andshallow; and with woods on the steep hillside, and spanned by abeautiful stone bridge. A little later its wanderings grew still moreperplexing, and she was not sure that it had not been joined in somestrange way by another river. But flowing round a low-lying field,coming suddenly from behind a bend in the land, it had seemed in thatplace like a pond. One bank was lined with bushes, the other lay open toa view of a treeless plain divided by ditches. Three ladies had heldtheir light boat in the deep current, and she had wondered who theywere, and what was their manner of living and their desires, and thoughshe would never know these things, the image of these ladies in theirboat had fixed itself in her mind for ever.Soon after the train began to slacken speed, and nervously she awaitedher destiny.For she was uncertain whether she would send Ulick a telegram, tellinghim to come to Park Lane, or whether she would drive straight to hislodgings. At the bottom of her heart she knew that when she arrived atSt. Pancras she would tell the cabman, "Queen's Square, Bloomsbury." Andan hour later, nervous with expectation, she sat in the cab, seeing thestreets pass behind her. She was beginning to know the characteristicsof the neighbourhood, and in the afternoon light they awoke her out of atrembling lethargy. She recognised the old iron gateway, the open space,the thirsty fountain and the troop of neglected children. She liked theforlorn and rusty square. She experienced a sort of sinking anguishwhile waiting on the doorstep, lest he might not be at home. But whenthe servant girl said Mr. Dean was upstairs, she liked her dirty,good-natured smile, and she loved the stairs and banisters--it was allwonderful, and she could hardly believe that in a few moments more shewould catch the first sight of his face. She would have to tell somepart of the truth; and since Lady Asher was dead, he could not fail tobelieve. He would never think of asking her--she put the ugly thoughtaside, and ran up the second flight.In the pauses of their love-making, they often wandered round the wallsparticipating in the mystery of the Wanderers, and the sempiternalloveliness of figures who stood with raised arms, by the streams ofParadise. It seemed a profanation to turn from these aspirations to theenjoyment of material love, and Evelyn looked at Ulick questioningly.But he said that life only became wrong when it ceased to aspire. In anIndian temple, it had once been asked who was the most holy man of all.A young saint who had not eaten for ten days had been pointed out, buthe said that the holiest man who ever lived stood yonder. It was thennoticed that the man pointed to was drunk ... Ulick explained that thedrunkenness did not matter; it was an unimportant detail in the man'slife, for none aspired as he did; and laughing at the story, they stoodby the dusty, windy pane, her hand resting on his shoulder, and theyalways remembered that that day they had seen the foliage in the square.Lady Duckle had gone to Homburg; Owen had been obliged to go to Bath onaccount of his gout; and Evelyn was free to abandon herself to her loveof Ulick and to her love of her father, and she begged him not to spoilher happiness, but to come to Dulwich with her. His scruples were easilyargued away. She urged that he had not taken her away, he had broughther back to her father. This last argument was convincing, and thehappiest time in their lives was the week they spent in Dulwich. Theysat down together to dinner under the lamp at the round table in thelittle back room, and their evenings were passed at the harpsichord andthe clavichord; and amid the dreams and aspirations of great men theyattained their sublime nature. The music that had been given and thatwas to be given at St. Joseph's furnished a never-failing subject ofdiscussion, and Mr. Innes told them stories of Italy in the sixteenthcentury. How almost every Sunday there was a festival in some churchwhere the most beautiful music was heard. Along the nave were eightchoirs, four on one side and four on the other, raised on stages eightto ten feet high, and facing one another at equal distances. Each choirhad a portable organ, and the _maitre composateur_ beat the time for theprincipal choir. And Mr. Innes's eyes lighted up when he spoke of theadmirable _style recitatif_ in the oratory of St. Marcellus when therewas a congregation of the Brothers of the Holy Crucifix. This order wascomposed of the chief noblemen of Rome, who had therefore the power ofbringing together the rarest musicians Italy could produce. The voicesbegan with a psalm in motet form, and then the instruments played asymphony, after which the voices sang a story from the Old Testament.Each chorister represented a personage in the story, etc. He spoke ofthe great organist at St. Peter's, and the wonderful inventions he issaid to have displayed in his improvisations. No one since had playedthe harp like the renowned Horatio, but there was no one who could playthe lyre like the renowned Ferrabosco in England. Evelyn leaned acrossthe table, transported three centuries back, hearing all this music,which she had known from her earliest years, performed by virtue of herfather's description in Italy, in St. Peter's, in the oratory of St.Marcellus and in the church of Minerva. Sometimes her father and Ulickbegan an argument, her sympathies alternated between them; she spokevery little, preferring to listen, not liking to side with either,agreeing with them, sometimes angering her father by her neutrality. Butone evening he was a little too insistent, and Evelyn burst into tears,and ran upstairs to her room. The two men looked at each other, and Mr.Innes begged Ulick to tell him if he had been unkind, and then besoughthim to go upstairs and try to induce Evelyn to come down. Her facebrightened into merry laughter at her own folly, and it called from hermany entertaining remarks, so Ulick was tempted to set them one againstthe other, and to do so he had only to ask if Evelyn could sing suchlight soprano parts as Zerlina or Rosetta as well as her mother.In the mornings Evelyn and Ulick lingered in the shade of the chestnuttrees or loitered in the lanes. At one moment they were telling eachother of the fatality of their passion; in the next, by some transitionof which they were not aware, they found themselves discussing somemusical question. They went for long drives; and Richmond Park, not morethan eight or ten miles distant, was at this season a beautiful,plaintive languor. There was a strange stillness in the air and a tenderbloom upon the blue sky which spoke to the heart as no words, as onlymusic could. The shadows moved listlessly among the bracken, and everyvista was an enticement. Soft rain had allayed the dust of the road, andthe distant hillsides seemed in the morning mists extraordinarily blueand romantic. There were wide prospects suggesting some great domain,and about the large oaks which stood in these open spaces herds of deerbrowsed, themselves the colour of the approaching month. About a suddenhillside, brilliantly blue, the evanescent mist hung over the heavyfronds, going out in the sunlight that was breaking through a grey sky.Ulick exclaimed, "How beautiful," and at the same moment Evelyn said,"Look at the deer, they are going to jump the railings." But the deerran underneath, and galloped down the sloping park between a line ofmassive oaks; and the white and the tan hinds and fawns expressed intheir life and beauty something which thrilled in the heart, andperforce Evelyn and Ulick remained silent. The park was wreathed thatmorning in sunlight and mist, it seemed to invite confidences, and thelovers dreamed of a perfect union of soul. The carriage was told to waitfor them, and they took a path leading under a long line of trees towardhigh ground. Carts had passed there, and the ruts were full of water,but the earth about them was a little crisp, as if there had been frostduring the night. They had brought with them a score of "Parsifal," forit was not yet certain that Evelyn would not play the part of Kundry.Notwithstanding Ulick's criticism, she thought she would like to act inthe third act. But they were too interested in each other to open thescore, and they were excited by the wonder of Nature in the stillmorning. The sky was all silver, and a very little distance bathed thehillsides in beautiful blue tones. The leaves of the oak trees hunglanguidly, as if considering the lowly earth to which they must soonreturn. Yet the blood was hot and the nerves were highly strung, andlife seemed capable of great things in this moody, contemplativemorning. There was a wonder in the little wren that picked her way amongthe fronds, and a thrill in the scurry of the watchful rabbit; and whenthey reached the crest of the upland and saw an open expanse of park,with the deer moving away through the mist, their souls dilated, and inhappy ecstasy they looked upon Nature with the same innocent wondermentas the first man and woman.The morning seemed to inspire adventure, and the little tale that Evelynwas telling was just what was required to enhance its suggestion. Bysome accident in the conversation she had been led to speak of how shehad been nearly captured by pirates in the Mediterranean. They werebecalmed off the African coast, and a boat had rowed out with fruits andvegetables. The suspicious countenances of this boat's crew did notstrike them at the time. But they were a reconnoitring party, and nextday about four in the afternoon they noticed a vessel propelled by sailsand oars steering straight for them, as if in the intention of runningthem down. It paid no attention to the cries of the captain, but camestraight at them, and would have succeeded in its design if the yachthad not been going through the water faster than the pirates supposed,so they fell astern, and no one thought any more of them till theytacked, and they had almost overtaken the yacht, they were hardlydistant more than fifty yards, when their intention was suspected. Thecaptain put the _Medusa's_ head up to the wind, and she soon began toleave her pursuer behind."We had no arms on board, they were fifty to twenty; the men would havebeen massacred, and I should have finished my days in a harem."Ulick had brought his violin with him, and they walked under thedrooping boughs, she singing and he playing old-world melodies by Lulliand Rameau. Sometimes a passer-by stopped, and peering through,discovered them in a hollow sitting under an oak. A snake crawled out ofits hole, and Ulick was about to rush forward to kill it, but Evelynlaid her hand upon his, and said--"Let it listen, poor thing. No living thing should meet its death forits love of music.""You're no longer the Evelyn Innes that loved Owen Asher.""I think I have changed a great deal. I was very young when I knew himfirst."She spoke of the influence he had exercised over her, but now his ideasmeant as little as he did himself--it was all far away. Only a littletrick of speech and a turn of phrase remained to recall his passagethrough her life. When they returned home she found a letter from him onthe table, and her face clouded as she read his letter, for it announcedan intention to call when he came to town, and to avoid his visit shethought she would stop in Dulwich. But if she stayed over Saturday, shewould have to go to Mass on Sunday. Last Sunday she escaped by pleadingindisposition. She wondered which she would prefer, to face Owen or tobrave the effect that she knew Mass would produce upon her.CHAPTER TWENTY-SIXShe was in the music-room, looking through the first act of "Grania,"and thinking that perhaps after all she might remain on the stage andcreate the part. Her father had gone to St. Joseph's for choir practice,Ulick had gone to London for strings for her viola da gamba; and all themorning she had been uneasy and expectant. The feeling never quite lefther that something was about to happen, that she was to meetsomeone--someone for whom she had been waiting a long while. So shestarted on hearing the front door bell ring. She could think of no onewhom it might be unless Owen. If it were, what would she say? And shewaited, eager for the servant to announce the visitor. It was MonsignorMostyn.She was dressed in a muslin tea-gown over shot green silk, and wasconscious of her triviality as she stood before the tall, spareecclesiastic. She admired the calm, refined beauty of his face, thebright, dark eyes and the thin features, steadfast and aloof as somesaints she had seen in pictures."I called to see your father, Miss Innes, but he is not in, and hearingthat you were, I asked to see you. For my business is really with you,that is, if you can spare the time?""Won't you sit down, Monsignor?""I have come, Miss Innes, to remind you of a promise that you once mademe."The colour returned to her cheeks, and a smile to her lips. But she didnot remember, and was slightly embarrassed."Did I make you a promise?""Have you forgotten my speaking to you about some poor sisters who mightbe driven from their convent if they failed to pay the interest on amortgage?""Ah, yes, on the night of the concert.""They have paid the interest and kept a roof over their heads, but indoing so they have exhausted their resources; and not to put too fine apoint upon it, I am afraid they often have not enough to eat. Somethingmust be done for them. I thought that a concert would be the quickestway of getting them some money.""You want me to sing?""It really would be a charitable action.""I shall be delighted to sing for them. Where is this convent?""At Wimbledon.""My old convent! The Passionist Sisters!""Your old convent?""Yes," Evelyn replied, the colour rising slightly to her cheeks. "I madea retreat there, long ago, before I went on the stage."She was grieved to hear that the Reverend Mother she had known was dead;she had died two years ago, and Mother Margaret was dead too. Monsignorcould tell her nothing about Sister Bonaventure. Mother Philippa was thesub-prioress; and in the midst of her questions he explained how thefinancial difficulties had arisen. They were, he said, the result of theimprudences of the late Reverend Mother, one of the best and holiest ofwomen, but unfortunately not endowed with sufficient business foresight.He was quite prepared to admit that the little wooden chapel which hadpreceded the present chapel was inadequate, and that she was justifiedin building another, but not in expending nearly one thousand pounds instained glass. The new chapel had cost ten thousand pounds, and theinterest of this money had to be paid. There were other debts--"But there is no reason why I should weary you with an exact statement.""But you do not weary me, Monsignor; I am, on the contrary, deeplyinterested.""The convent owes a great deal to the late Reverend Mother, and the lastthing I wish to express is disapproval. We do not know thecircumstances, and must not judge her; we know that she acted for thebest. No doubt she is now praying to God to secure the safety of herconvent."Evelyn sat watching him, fascinated by the clear, peremptory,ecclesiastical dignity which he represented. If he had a singing voice,she said to herself, it would be a tenor. He had allowed theconversation to wander from the convent to the concert; and they weresoon talking of their musical preferences. There was an impersonaltenderness, a spiritual solicitude in his voice which enchained her; nosingle idea held her, but wave after wave of sensation passed,transforming and dissolving, changeable as a cloud. Human life demandshope, and the priest is a symbol of hope; there is always a moment whenthe religionist doubts, and there is also a moment when the atheistsays, "Who knows, perhaps." And this man had done what she had not beenable to do: he had put aside the paltry pleasures of the world, heplaced his faith in things beyond the world, pleasures which perchancewere not paltry. An entirely sensual life was a terrible oppression;hers often weighed upon her like a nightmare; to be happy one must havean ideal and strive to live up to it. Her mind flickered and sank,changing rapidly as an evening sky, never coming to anything distinctenough to be called a thought. She desired to hear him speak, she feltthat she must speak to him about religion; she wanted to know if he weresure, and how he had arrived at his certitudes.... She wanted to talk tohim about life, death and immortality. She had tried to lead theconversation into a religious discussion, but he seemed to avoid it, andjust as she was about to put a definite question, Ulick came into theroom. He stood crushing his grey felt hat between his hands, a somewhatcurious figure, and she watched him talking to Monsignor, thinking ofthe difference of vision. As Ulick said, everything was in that. Menwere divided by the difference of their visions. She was curious to knowhow the dogmatic and ritualistic vision of Monsignor affected Ulick, andwhen the prelate left she asked him.He was as ingenuous and unexpected on this subject as he was on allsubjects. If the antique priest, he said, clothed himself in purple, itwas to produce an exaltation in himself which would bring him closer tothe idea, which would render him, as it were, accessible to it. But thevestments of the modern priest had lost their original meaning, theywere mere parade. This explanation was very like Ulick; she smiled, andwas interested, but her interest was passing and superficial. The adventof the priest had moved her in the depths of her being, and her mind wasthick with lees of ancient sentiment, and wrecks of belief had floatedup and hung in mid memory. She knew that the beauty of the ritual, theeternal psalms, the divine sacrifice, the very ring of the bell, theantiquity of the language, lifted her out of herself, and into a higher,a more intense ecstasy than the low medium of this world's desires. Andif she did not believe that the bread and wine were the true body andblood of God, she still believed in the real Presence. She was aware ofit as she might be of the presence of someone in the room, though hemight be hidden from her eyes. Though the bread and wine might not bethe body and blood of Christ, still the act of consecration did seem toher to call down the spirit of God, and it had seemed to her to inhabitthe church at the moment of consecration. It might not be true to Owen,nor yet to Ulick, but it was true to her--it was a difference ofvision.... She sat buried in herself. Then she walked to the windowconfused and absorbed, with something of the dread of a woman who findsherself suddenly with child. When Ulick came to her she did not noticehim, and when he asked her to do some music with him she refused, andwhen he put his arms about her she drew away sullenly, almostresentfully.A few days after she was in Park Lane. She had gone there to pay somebills, and she was going through them when she was startled by the frontdoor bell. It was a visitor without doubt. Her thoughts leaped toMonsignor, and her face lighted up. But he did not know she was at ParkLane; he would not go there.... It was Owen come up from Bath. Whatshould she say to him? Good heavens! It was too late to say she was notat home. He was already on the stairs. And when he entered he divinedthat he was not welcome. They sat opposite each other, trying to talk.Suddenly he besought her not to throw him over.... She had to refuse tokiss him, and that was convincing, he said. Once a woman was not greedyfor kisses, the end was near. And his questions were to the point, andirritatingly categorical. Had she ever been unfaithful to him? Did shelove Ulick Dean? Not content with a simple denial, he took her by bothhands, and looking her straight in the face, asked her to give him herword of honour that Ulick Dean was not her lover, that she had neverkissed him, that she had never even desired to kiss him, that no idea oflove making had ever arisen between them. She pledged her word on everypoint, and this was the second time that her _liaison_ with Ulick hadobliged her to lie, deliberately in so many words. Nor did the lyingeven end there. He wanted her to stay, to dine with him; she had toinvent excuses--more lies.She was returning to Dulwich in her carriage, and until she arrived homeher thoughts hankered and gnawed, pestered and terrified her. Never hadshe felt so ashamed, so disgusted with herself, and the after taste ofthe falsehoods she had told came back into her mouth, and her face grewdark in the beautiful summer evening. Her brows were knit, and sheresolved that if the occasion happened again, she would tell Owen thetruth. This was no mock determination; on this point she was quite sureof herself. Looking round she saw the mean streets of Camberwell. Shesaw them for a moment, and then she sank back into her reverie.She was deceiving Owen, she was deceiving her father, she was deceivingUlick, she was deceiving Monsignor--he would not have thought of askingher to sing at the concert if he knew what a life was hers. Nor wouldthose good women at the convent accept her aid if they knew what kind ofwoman she was. And the strange thing was that she did not believeherself to be a bad woman; at the bottom of her heart she loved truthand sincerity. She wished to have an ideal and to live up to it, yet shewas doing the very opposite. That was what was so strange, that was whatshe did not understand, that was what made her incomprehensible toherself. She sighed, and at the bottom of her heart there lay an immenseweariness, a weariness of life, of the life she was leading, and shelonged for a life that would coincide with her principles, and she feltthat if she did not change her life, she would do something desperate.She might kill herself.It is true that man is a moral animal, but it is not true that there isbut one morality; there are a thousand, the morality of each race isdifferent, the morality of every individual differs. The origin of eachsect is the desire to affirm certain moral ideas which particularlyappeal to it; every change of faith is determined by the moraltemperament of the individual; we prefer this religion to that religionbecause our moral ideas are more implicit in these affirmations than inthose.The restriction of sexual intercourse is the moral ideal of WesternEurope; it is the one point on which all Christians are agreed; it isthe one point on which they all feel alike. So inherent is the idea ofsexual continence in the Western hemisphere that even those whosepractice does not coincide with their theory rarely impugn the wisdom ofthe law which they break; they prefer to plead the weakness of the fleshas their excuse, and it is with reluctance that they admit that withoutan appeal to conscience it would be impossible to prove that it is wrongfor two unmarried people to live together. It is not perceived that thefact that no material proof can be produced strengthens rather thanweakens the position of the moralist. To do unto others as you would bedone unto, to love your neighbour as yourself, are practical moralitieswhich may be derived from social necessities, but the abstractmoralities, that sexual intercourse is wrong except between marriedpeople, and that it is wrong to tell a lie, even if the lie be aperfectly harmless one, exist of themselves. That we cannot bringabstract moralities into the focus of our understanding is no argument.As well deny the stars because we cannot understand them. That abstractmoralities impose on us should be a sufficient argument that they cannotbe the futilities that Owen would argue them to be--not them, he onlyprotested against one.... (She had not thought of that before--Owen wasno more rational than she.) That the idea of chastity should persist inspite of reason is proof of its truth. For what more valid argument infavour of a chaste life than that the instinct of chastity abides in us?After all, what we feel to be true is for us the greatest truth, if notthe only real truth. Ulick was nearer the truth than Owen. He had said,"A sense which eludes all the other senses and which is notapprehensible to reason governs the world, all the rest iscircumstantial, ephemeral. Were man stripped one by one of all hisattributes, his intelligence, his knowledge, his industry, as each ofthese shunks was broken up and thrown aside, the kernel about which theyhad gathered would be a moral sense."Evelyn remembered that when she had sent Owen away before, he had said,"Sexual continence at best is not the whole of morality; from your useof the word one would think that it was." But for her the sexualconscience was the entire conscience--she had no temptation to steal.There was lying, but she was never tempted to tell lies except for onereason; she could not think of herself telling a lie for any other. Toher the sexual sin included all the others. She turned her head aside,for the bitterness of her conscience was unendurable, and she vowedthat, whatever happened, she would speak the truth if Owen questionedher again. She could never bring herself to tell such horriblefalsehoods again.These revulsions of feeling alternated with remembrances of Owen'stenderness; fugitive sensations of him tingled in her veins, andill-disposed her to Ulick. She spoke little, and sat with averted eyes.When he asked her if he should come to her room, she answered himperemptorily; and he heard her lock her door with a determined hand.As she lay in bed, conscious of the inextricable tangle of her life, itwas knotting so closely and rapidly that her present double life couldnot endure much longer, the odious taste of the lies she had told thatafternoon rose again to her lips, and, as if to quench the bitterness,she vowed that she would tell Owen the truth ... if he asked her. If hedid not ask her she would have to bear the burden of her lies. She triednot to wish that he might ask her. Then questions sallied from everyside. She could not marry Owen without telling him about Ulick. Shecould not marry Ulick without telling him that she had been unfaithfulto him with Owen. Should she send away Owen and marry Ulick, or would itbe better to send away Ulick and marry Owen--if he would marry her afterhe had heard her confession? It was unendurable to have to tell lies allday long--yes, all day long--of one sort or another. She ought to sendthem both away.... But could she remain on the stage without a lover?Could she go to Bayreuth by herself? Could she give up the stage? Andthen?She awoke in a different mood--at least, it seemed to her that her moodwas different. She was not thinking of Owen, of the lies she had toldhim; and she could talk gaily with Ulick about the concert she hadpromised to sing at. She seemed inclined to take the wholeresponsibility of this concert upon her own shoulders. As Ulick said, itwas impossible for her to take a small part in any concert.They were driving in Richmond Park, not far from the convent. Theautumn-tinted landscape, the vicissitudes of the woods, and theplaintive air brought a tender yearning into her mood, and shecontrasted the lives of those poor, holy women with her own life. Ulickdid not intrude himself; he sat silent by her, and she thought ofMonsignor. Sometimes he was no more than a little shadow in thebackground of her mind; but he was never wholly absent, and that day allmatters were unconsciously referred to him. She was curious to know whathis opinions were of the stage; and as they returned home in the short,luminous autumn evening, she seemed to discover suddenly the fact thatshe was no longer as much interested in the stage as she used to be. Sheeven thought that she would not greatly care if she never sang on thestage again. Last night she had put the thought aside as if it weremadness, to-day it seemed almost natural. Thinking of the poor sisterswho lived in prayer and poverty on the edge of the common, sheremembered that her life was given up to the portrayal of sensualemotion on the stage. She remembered the fierce egotism of the stage--anegotism which pursued her into every corner of her life. Compared withthe lives of the poor sisters who had renounced all that was base inthem, her life was very base indeed. In her stage life she was an agentof the sensual passion, not only with her voice, but with her arms, herneck and hair, and every expression of her face, and it was the cravingof the music that had thrown her into Ulick's arms. If it had subjugatedher, how much more would it subjugate and hold within its sensualpersuasion the ignorant listener--the listener who would perceive in themusic nothing but its sensuality. Why had the Church not placed stagelife under the ban of mortal sin? It would have done so if it knew whatstage life was, and must always be. She then wondered what Monsignorthought of the stage, and from the moment her curiosity was engaged onthis point it did not cease to trouble her till it brought her to thedoor of the presbytery. The ostensible object of her visit was to makecertain proposals to Monsignor regarding the music she was to sing atthe concert.She was shown into a small room; its one window was so high up on thewall that the light was dim in the room, though outside there wasbrilliant sunshine. The sadness of the little room struck cold upon her,and she noticed the little space of floor covered with cocoa-nutmatting, and how it grated under the feet. The furniture was a polishedoak table, with six chairs to match. A pious print hung on each wall.One was St. Monica and St. Augustine, and the rapt expression of theirfaces reminded her that she might be bartering a divine inheritance fora coarse pleasure that left but regret in the heart. And it was in suchheartsick humour that Monsignor found her. He seemed to assume that sheneeded his help, and the tender solicitude with which he wished to cometo her aid was in itself a consolation. She was already an incipientpenitent as she told him of her project to bring an orchestra at her ownexpense to Wimbledon, and give the forest murmurs with the Bird Songfrom "Siegfried." Monsignor left everything to her; he placed himselfunreservedly in her hands. After a long silence she pushed a cheque forfifty pounds across the table, begging him not to mention the name ofthe giver. She was singing for them, that was sufficient obligation. Heapproved of her delicacy of feeling, thanked her for her generosity,and the business of the interview seemed ended."I'm so much obliged to you, Monsignor Mostyn, for having come to me,for having given me an opportunity of doing some good with my money.Hitherto, I'm ashamed to say, I've spent it all on myself. It has oftenseemed to me intolerably selfish, and I often felt that I must dosomething, only I did not know what to do."Then, feeling that she must take him into her confidence, she asked himwhat proportion of our income we should devote to charity. He said itwas impossible to fix a precise sum, but he knew many deserving cases,and offered to advise her in the distribution of whatever money shemight decide to spend in charity. Suddenly his manner changed; he evenseemed to wish her to stay, and the conversation turned back to music.The conversation was mundane as possible, and it was only now and then,by some slight allusion to the Church, that he reminded Evelyn, andperchance himself, that the essential must be distinguished from thecircumstantial.Again and again the temptation rose up, it seemed to look out from hervery eyes, and she was so conscious of this irresistible desire to speakto him of herself that she no longer heard him, and hardly saw the blankwall with the pious print upon it."I have not told you, Monsignor," she said at last, "that I am leavingthe stage."She knew that he must ask her what had induced her to think of taking soimportant a step, and then she would have an opportunity of asking hisopinion of the stage. Of course neither Ulick's nor Owen's name would bementioned."As at present constituted, the stage is a dangerous influence. Somewomen no doubt are capable of resisting evil even when surrounded byevil. Even so they set a bad example, for the very knowledge of theirvirtue tempts others less sure of themselves to engage in the same life,and these weak ones fall. The virtuous actress is like a false light,which instead of warning vessels from the rocks entices them to theirruin."He did not indite the Oberammergau Passion Play, but he could not accept"Parsifal." He had heard Catholics aver, while approving of theperformance of "Parsifal," that they would not wish to see the pieceperformed out of Bayreuth. But he failed to understand this point ofview altogether. It seemed to assume that a parody of the Mass wasunobjectionable at Bayreuth, though not elsewhere. If there was noparody of the Mass, why should they say that they would not like to seethe piece performed elsewhere? He had read the book and knew the music,and could not understand how a great work of art could contain scenesfrom real life. Whether these be religious ceremonies or socialfunctions, the artistic sin is the same. He asked Evelyn why she wassmiling, and she told him that it was because the only two whom she hadheard disapprove of "Parsifal" were Monsignor Mostyn and Ulick Dean. Itseemed strange that two such extremes should agree regarding theprofligacy of "Parsifal." Monsignor was interested for a moment in UlickDean's views, and then he said--"But was it with the intention of consulting me, Miss Innes, that youintroduced the subject? I hear that you are going to play the principalpart next year--Kundry.""Nothing is settled. As I told you just now, Monsignor, I am thinking ofleaving the stage, and your opinions concerning it do not encourage meto remain an actress.""My dear child, you have had the good fortune to be brought up in holyChurch. You have, I hope, constant recourse to the sacraments. You haveconfided the difficulties of your stage life to your confessor. How doeshe advise you?"Raising her eyes, Evelyn said in a sinking voice--"Even if one has doubts about the whole doctrine of the Church, it isstill possible to wish to lead a good life. Don't you think so,Monsignor?""There are many Protestants who lead excellent lives. But I have alwaysnoticed that when a Catholic begins to question the doctrine of theChurch, his or her doubts were preceded by a desire to lead an irregularlife."And in the silence Evelyn became aware of the afternoon sun shiningthrough the window above their heads, enlivening the dark parlour. Itseemed strange to sit discussing such subjects in the sunshine. The raythat fell through the window lighted up the priest's thin face till itseemed like one of the wood carvings she had seen in Germany. When heresumed the conversation it was to lead her to speak of herself and thereasons which had suggested an abandonment of her stage career. Thetender, impersonal kindness of the priest drew her out of herself, andshe told him how she had begun to perceive that the stage had ceased tointerest her as it had once done; she spoke of vulgarity and parade, yetthat was not quite what she meant; it had come to seem to her like somuch waste, as if she were wasting her time in doing things that did notmatter, like grown people would feel if they were asked to pass theafternoon playing with dolls. Shrugging her shoulders hysterically, shesaid she could not explain."But have you an idea of what life you wish to lead?""No, I don't think I have; I only know that I am not happy in my presentlife.""I believe you see a good deal of Sir Owen Asher. He helped you, did henot, in your musical education?""Yes," she answered under her breath. "He is an intimate friend." In amoment of unexpected courage, she said, "Do you know him, Monsignor?""I have heard a good deal about him, and nothing, I regret to say, tohis credit. He is, I believe, an avowed atheist, and does not hesitateto declare his unbelief in every society, and to make open boast of animmoral life. He has read and tried to understand a little more than thepeople with whom he associates. I suppose the doubts you entertainregarding the doctrine of the Church are the result of his teaching?"With a little pathetic air, Evelyn admitted that Owen had used everypossible argument to destroy her faith. She had read Huxley, Darwin, anda little Herbert Spencer."Herbert Spencer! Miserable collections of trivial facts, bearing uponnothing. Of what value, I ask, can it be to suffering humanity to knowthat such and such a fact has been observed and described? Then thegeneral law! rubbish, ridiculous rubbish!""The scientists fail to see that what we feel matters much more thanwhat we know.""True, quite true," he said, turning sharply and looking at her withadmiration. Then, recollecting himself, he said, "But God does not existbecause we feel He exists. He exists not through us, but throughHimself, from all time and through all eternity. To feel is better thanto observe, to pray is better than to inquire, but indiscriminateabandonment to our feelings would lead us to give credence to everysuperstition. You have, I perceive, escaped from the rank materialism ofSir Owen's teaching, but whither are you drifting, my dear child? Youmust return to the Church; without the Church, we are as vessels withouta rudder or compass."He walked up and down the room as though debating with himself. Evelynheld her breath, wondering what new turn the conversation would take.Suddenly she lost her courage, and overcome with fear got up to go, andMonsignor, considering that enough had been said, did not attempt todetain her. But as he bade her good-bye at the door, his keen eye fixedupon her, he added, "Remember, I do not admit your difficulties to beintellectual ones. When you come to realise that for yourself, I shallbe glad to do all in my power to help you. God bless you, my child!"If only she could put the whole thing aside--refuse to bother her headany more, or else believe blindly what she was told. She hated wobbling,yet she did nothing else. Suddenly she felt that if she were to believeat all, it must be like Monsignor. The magnetism of his faith thrilledher, and, in a moment, it had all became real to her. But it was toolate. She could never do all her religion asked. Her whole life wouldhave to come to pieces; nothing of it would remain, and she entirelylost heart when she considered in detail the sacrifices she would haveto make. She saw herself at Dulwich with her father, giving singinglessons, attending the services, and living about St. Joseph's. She sawherself singing operas in every capital, and always a new lover at herheels. Both lives were equally impossible to her. As she lay back in hercarriage driving through the lazy summer streets, she almost wished shehad no conscience at all. What was the use of it? She had just enough tospoil her happiness in wrong-doing, yet not enough to prevent her doingwhat deep down in her heart she knew to be wrong.That evening she wrote a number of letters, and begged a subscription ofevery friend--Owen was out of the question and she hesitated whether sheshould make use of Ulick. She would have liked to have left him out ofthis concert altogether, and it was only because she had no one elsewhom she could depend upon that she consented to let him go off insearch of the necessary tenor. But to take him to the concert did notseem right.She dipped her pen in the ink, and then laid it down, overcome by asudden and intolerable melancholy. She could have cried, so great washer weariness with the world, so worthless did her life seem. She hadbegged her father's forgiveness; he had forgiven her, but she had notsent away her lover.... She had told Monsignor that, in consequence ofcertain scruples of conscience, she intended to give up the stage, butshe had not told him that she had taken another lover and brought him tolive with her under her father's roof. Whether there was a God and ahereafter, or merely oblivion, such conduct as hers was surely wrong.She walked to and fro, and came to a resolution regarding her relationswith Ulick, at all events in her father's house.Then life seemed perfectly hopeless, and she wished Monsignor had notcome to see her. What could she do to shake off this clammy andunhealthy depression which hung about her? She might go for a walk, butwhere? The perspective of the street recalled the days when she used tostand at the window wondering if nothing would ever happen to her. Sheremembered the moment with singular distinctness when she heard thevoice crying within her? "Will nothing ever happen? Will this go on forever?" She remembered the very tree and the very angle of the house!Dulwich was too familiar; it was like living in a room where there wasnothing but mirrors. Dulwich was one vast mirror of her past life. InDulwich she was never living in the present. She could not see Dulwich,she could only remember it. One walk more in that ornamental park! Sheknew it too well! And the picture gallery meant Owen--she would only seehim and hear his remarks. Her thoughts reverted to his proposal ofmarriage and her acceptance. Not for the whole world! Why, she did notknow. He had been very good to her. Her ingratitude shocked her. Sheshrugged her shoulders hysterically; she could not help it--that was howshe felt.But Ulick? Should she marry him and accept the Gods? That would settleeverything.But a sense of humour solves nothing, and at that moment the servantbrought her a small brown paper parcel. It looked like a book. It was abook. She opened it. Monsignor had sent her a book. As she turned theleaves she remembered the parcels of books from Owen which she used toopen in the same room, sitting in the same chair. _Sin and itsConsequences_! She began reading it. On one point she was sure, that sindid exist.... If we felt certain things to be wrong, they were wrong; atleast they were wrong for those who thought them wrong, and she hadnever been able to feel that it was right to live with a man to whom shewas not married. Everyone had a moral code. Owen would not cheat atcards, and he thought it mean to tell lies--a very poor code it was, butstill he acted up to it. She did not know how Ulick felt on suchmatters; his beliefs, though numerous and picturesque, supplied no moralcode, and she could not live on symbols, though perhaps they were betterthan Owen's theories. Her mistake from the beginning was in trying toacquire a code of morals which did not coincide with her feelings. Butthe teaching in this book did coincide with her feelings. Could shefollow it? That was the point. Could she live without a lover? Owenthought not. She laughed and then walked about the room, unable to shakeoff a dead weight of melancholy. Though the Church was all wrong, andthere was no God, she was still leading a life which she felt to bewrong; and if the Church were right, and there was a resurrection, hersoul was lost. She took up the book and read till her fears became sointense that she could read no more, and she walked up and down theroom, her nerves partially unstrung. In the evening she talked a greatdeal and rapidly, apparently not quite aware of what she was saying, orelse her face wore a brooding look; sometimes it awakened a little, andthen her eyes were fixed on Ulick.The next day was Friday, and as the train service seemed complex andinconvenient, and as she had not at Dulwich a suitable dress to wear atthe concert, she decided to sleep at Park Lane and drive to Wimbledon inthe afternoon. She left her father, promising to return to him soon, andshe had told Ulick that she thought it better he should return by train.She saw that he had noticed the book in her hand, and she knew that heunderstood her plea that she did not wish to be seen driving with him tomean that she was going to call on Monsignor on her way home. She hadthought of calling at St. Joseph's, but, unable to think of asufficient excuse for the visit, had abandoned the idea. She knew thetime was not opportune. Monsignor would be hearing confessions. But asthe carriage turned out of Camberwell, she remembered that it would bepolite to thank him for the book, and leaning forward she told thecoachman to drive to St. Joseph's.... So after all she was goingthere.... Ulick was right.The attendant told her that Monsignor was hearing confessions, and wouldnot be free for another half-hour. She drew a breath of relief, for thissecond visit had frightened her. The attendant asked her if she wouldwait. She thought she would like to wait in church. She desired itscollectedness, its peace. But the thought of Monsignor's confessionalfrightened her, and she thanked the attendant hurriedly, and went slowlyto her carriage.When Ulick came in that evening she was seated on the corner of the sofanear the window. The moon was shining on the breathless park, and a mothwhirled between the still flames of the candles which burned on thepiano. He noticed that her mood was subdued and reflective. She likedhim to sit by her, to take her hand and tell her he loved her. She likedto listen to him, but not to music; nor would she sing that evening, andhis questions as to the cause remained unanswered. Her voice was calmand even, and seemed to come from far away. There was a tremor in his,and between whiles they watched and wondered at the flight of the moth.It seemed attracted equally by darkness and light. It emerged from thedarkness, fluttered round the perilous lights and returned again to itsnatural gloom. But the temptation could not be resisted, and it fellsinged on the piano."We ought to have quenched those candles," Evelyn said."It would have found others," Ulick answered, and he took the maimedmoth on to the balcony and trod it out of its misery. They sat thereunder the little green verandah, and in the colour of the clear nighttheir talk turned on the stars and the Zodiacal signs. Ulick was bornunder the sign of Aquarius, and all the important events of his lifebegan when Aquarius was rising. Pointing to a certain group of stars, hesaid--"The story of Grania is no more than our story, your story, my story,and the story of Sir Owen Asher, and I had written my poem before I sawyou." Then, as a comment on this fact, he added, "We should be carefulwhat we write, for what we write will happen. Grania is the beautifulfortune which we will strive for, which chooses one man to-day andanother to-morrow."The idea interested her for a moment, but she was thinking of herproject to find out if, like Owen, he thought that the virtue ofchastity was non-essential in women, or if the other virtues weredependent upon it. But how to lead the conversation back to thisquestion she did not for the moment know. At last she said--"You ask meto love you--but to be my lover you would have to surrender all yourspiritual life, that which is most to you, that which makes your genius.Do you think it worth it?"He hesitated, then answered her with some vague reference to destiny,but she guessed the truth. As free as Owen himself from ethicalscruples, he still felt that we should overcome our sexual nature. Sheasked herself why: and she wondered just as Owen wondered whenconfronted by her religious conscience. They looked at each other longand gravely, and he told her of the great seer who had collected in herown person all the cryptic revelation, all the esoteric lore of theEast. He admitted that she had allowed carnal intercourse to some of herdisciples while forbidding it to others."Evidently judging chastity to be in some cases essential to the othervirtues."She heard him say that a sect of mystics to which he belonged, orperhaps it was whose society he frequented, advised the married statebut with this important reservation, that instead of corporal possessionthey should endeavour to aid each other to rise to a higher spiritualplane, anticipating in this life a little the perfect communion ofspirit which awaited them in the next. But such theories did not appealto Evelyn. She could only understand the renunciation of the marriedstate for the sake of closer intimacy with the spiritual life; and shewas more interested when he told her of the cruelties, the macerationsand the abstinences which the Indian seers resorted to, so that theopacity of the fleshly envelope might be diminished and let the soulthrough. In modern, as in the most ancient ages, with the scientist aswith the seer, marvels and prodigies are reached through the subjugationof the flesh; as life dwindles like a flame that a breath will quench,the spirit attains its maximum, and the abiding and unchanging life thatlies beyond death waxes till it becomes the real life."Is this life, then, not real?""If reality means what we understand, could anything be more unreal?""Then you do believe in a future state?""Yes, I certainly believe in a future state.... So much so that it seemsimpossible to believe that life ends utterly with death."But to Evelyn's surprise, he seemed to doubt the immortality of thisfuture state, and fell back on the Irish doctrine which holds that afterdeath you pass to the great plain or land under the sea, or the landover the sea, or the land of the children of the goddess Dana."Even now my destiny is accomplishing."The true Celt is still a pagan--Christianity has been superimposed. Itis little more than veneer, and in the crises of life the Celt turns tothe ancient belief of his race. But did Ulick really believe in Angusand Lir and the Great Mother Dana? Perhaps he merely believed that as aman of genius it was his business to enroll himself in the originalinstincts and traditions of his race.They were as unquiet as cattle before an approaching storm, and whenthey returned to the drawing-room it seemed to him like a scene in atheatre about to be withdrawn to make way for another part of the story.Even while looking at it, it seemed to have receded a little.At last it was time for Ulick to go. As they said good-night he askedher if he should come to lunch. She looked at him, uncertain if sheought to take him to the concert at all.CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVENMonsignor, who was waiting for her at the steps of the hall which hadbeen hired for the concert, introduced her to Father Daly, the conventchaplain. She shook hands with him, and caught sight of him as she didso. It was but a passing glance of a small, blonde man with whiteeyelashes, seemingly too shy to raise his eyes; and she was toostringently occupied with other thoughts to notice him further.Owing to her exertions and Monsignor Mostyn's, a large audience had beencollected, and though the month was September, there were manyfashionable, influential and musical people present.The idea of the band, which Evelyn had thought of bringing down in theintention of giving the Forest Murmurs and the Bird Music, had beenabandoned, but the finest exponent of Wagner on the piano had come toplay the usual things: the closing scene of the "Walkuere," the overtureof the "Meistersinger" and the Prelude of "Tristan." And, mingled withthe students and apostles from London, were a goodly number of young menand women from the various villas. Every degree of Wagner culture waspresent, from the ten-antlered stag who had seen "Parsifal" given underthe eye of the master to the skipping fawns eagerly browsing upon themotives. "That is the motive of the Ride; that, dear, is the motive ofthe Fire; that is the motive of Slumber in the Fire, and that is themotive of Siegfried, the pure hero who will be born to save Valhalla."The class above had some knowledge of the orchestration. "You see," saida young man, pointing to the score, "here he is writing for the entireorchestra." "Three bars farther on he is writing for three violins and aflute. He withdraws his instruments in a couple of bars; it would takeanyone else five-and-twenty." At a little distance the old stag who hadnever missed a festival at Bayreuth was telling the young lady at hisside that the "Walkuere" is written in the same style as the "Rheingold"and the first two acts of "Siegfried." Another distinct change of stylecame with the third act of "Siegfried" and the "Dusk of the Gods," whichwere not composed till some years later. "Ah, that wonderful laterstyle! That scale of half-notes! Flats and sharps introduced into everybar; C, C sharp; D, D sharp; E, F, F sharp; G, G sharp; A, B flat, B,C. In that scale, or what would seem to be that scale, he balanceshimself like an acrobat, springing on to the desired key withoutpreparation," and so on until the old stag was interrupted by a friend,a lady who had just recognised him. As she squeezed past, she stopped totell him that Wagner had spoiled her for all other music. She had beento hear Beethoven's "Eroica" Symphony once more, but it had seemed toher like a pious book.Evelyn sang "Elsa's Dream," "Elizabeth's Prayer" and the "Liebestod,"and when she was recalled at the end of the concert, she sang Senta'sballad as a _bonne bouche_, something that the audience had notexpected, and would send her friends away more than ever pleased withher.Her father had not been able to come--that was a disappointment--butUlick had accompanied her beautifully, following her voice, making themost of it at every moment. When she left the platform, she took bothhis hands and thanked him. She loved him in that instant as a musicianand as a mistress. But the joy of the moment, the ecstasy of admiration,was interrupted by Monsignor Mostyn and Father Daly. They too wished tothank her. In his courtly manner, Monsignor told her of the pleasure hersinging had given him. But when Father Daly mentioned that the nunsexpected her to tea, her courage seemed to slip away. The idea of aconvent frightened her, and she tried to excuse herself, arguing thatshe had to go back to London."If you're engaged for dinner, I'm afraid there will not be time,"Monsignor said. She looked up, and, meeting his eyes, did not dare tolie to him."No; I'm not dining out, but I promised to take Mr. Dean back in mycarriage.""Mr. Dean will, I'm sure, not mind waiting."It seemed to Evelyn that Monsignor suspected her relations with Ulick,and to refuse to go to the convent, she thought, would only confirm himin his suspicions. So she accepted the invitation abruptly, and whenthey turned to go, she said--"My carriage is here; I'll drive you," and, at the same moment, sheremembered that Ulick was waiting. But she felt that she could not driveback to London with him after leaving the convent, and she hoped thatMonsignor would not correctly interpret the disappointment which wasplain upon his face. No; he must go back by train--no, there would be nouse his calling that evening at Park Lane.She wore a black and white striped silk dress, with a sort of muslinbodice covered with lace, and there was a large bunch of violets in herwaistband. The horses were beautiful in the sunshine, and their redhides glistened in the long, slanting rays. She put up her parasol andtried to understand, but she could only see the angles of houses, andthe eccentricity of every passer-by. She saw very clearly the thin,facial line, and her eyes rested on the touch of purple at the throat tomark his Roman dignity. Father Daly sat opposite, rubbing his thumbslike one in the presence of a superior. He was not ill-looking, but soshy that his features passed unperceived, and it was some time beforeshe saw his eyes; they were always cast down, and his thin, well-cutnose disappeared in his freckled cheeks. The cloth he wore was coarserthan Monsignor's; his heavy shoes contrasted with the finely-stitchedand buckled shoes of the Papal prelate.This visit to the convent frightened Evelyn more than the largestaudience that had ever assembled to hear her, and, until they got clearof the town, she was not certain she would not plead some excuse andtell the coachman to turn back. But now it was too late. The carriageascended the steep street, and, at the top of it, the town endedabruptly at the edge of the common. On one side was a high brick wall,hiding the grounds and gardens of the villas; on the other was thecommon, seen through the leaves of a line of thin trees. In her nervousagitation, she saw very distinctly--the foreground teeming with theanimation of cricket, the more remote parts solitary, the windmillhovering in a corner out of the way of the sunset, and two horsemen anda horsewoman cantering along the edge of the long valley into which theplain dropped precipitously. The sun sank in a white sky, and Evelyncaught the point of one of the ribs of her parasol, so that she couldhold it in a better position to shade her eyes, and she saw how thehouses stretched into a point, the last being an inn, no doubt the noisyresort of the cricketers and the landscape painters. There was a paintermaking his way towards the valley, his paint-box on his back. But atthat moment the carriage turned into a lane where a paling enclosed thesmall gardens. She then noticed the decaying pear or apple tree, towhich was attached a clothes-line. Enormous sunflowers weltered in thedusty corners. The brick was crumbling and broken, beautiful in colour,"And in every one of these cottages someone is living; someone islaughing; someone will soon be dead. Good heavens, how strange!""We are nearly there."Evelyn started; it was Father Daly speaking to her. "The cottages havespoilt the appearance on this side, but the view is splendid from theother."The lane ascended and Evelyn remembered how the house stood inside awall behind some trees, looking westward, the last southern end of thecommon land as the windmill was the last northern end. There had beeniron gates when a great City merchant lived in the Georgian house, whichhad been gradually transformed to suit the requirements of the sisters.The melancholy little peal of the bell hanging on a loose wire soundedfar away, and in the interval Evelyn noticed the large double door,from which the old green paint was peeling. A step was heard within, andthe little shutter which closed the grated peephole in the panel of thedoor was drawn back; the eyes and forehead band of a nun appeared for aninstant in the opening; and then with a rattle of keys the door washastily opened and the little porteress, with ruddy cheeks and a shysmile, stood aside to let Evelyn pass in. She kissed the hand ofMonsignor as he turned to her with a kindly word of salutation. "TheReverend Mother is expecting you," she said, her agitation being due tothe importance of the occasion."No doubt they have been praying that I might sing well, poor dears,"Evelyn thought, as she followed the nun up the paved, covered way.Through the iron frame-work, woven through and through with creepers andmonthly roses, she caught glimpses of the partly-obliterated carriagedrive, and of the neatly-kept flower beds filled with geraniums andtall, white asters.In the hall an Adam's ceiling radiated in graceful lines from a centralmedallion, and before a statue of the Sacred Heart a light was burning.Evelyn remembered how the poor lay sisters laboured to keep the stonefloor spotless, and it was into the parlour on the left, which Evelynremembered to be the best parlour, that Sister Angela ushered them.In the old days, before a sudden crisis on the Stock Exchange hadobliged the owner to sell the house for much less than its true value tothe little community of sisters of the Passion who were then seeking apermanent house, this room, round which Evelyn and the two priests werelooking for seats, had been used as a morning-room. Three long Frenchwindows looked out on the garden, and the flowers and air made it abright, cheerful room, in spite of the severe pictures on the walls. Sherecognised at once the engraving of Leonardo's "Last Supper" which hungover the solid marble chimney piece a little above the statue of OurLady of Lourdes and the two blue vases, and also the pale, distemperedwalls, and the coloured, smiling portrait of the Pope, and a full-lengthphotograph of Cardinal Manning, signed in his own clear, neathandwriting.Evelyn and the priests, still undecided where they should sit, looked atthe little horsehair sofa. Monsignor brought forward for her one of thesix high, straight-backed chairs, and they sat at the circular tablelaid out with severe books; a volume of the _Lives of the Saints_ layunder her hand, and she glanced at a little box for contributions. Shelooked at the priests and then round the room, striving to penetrate themeaning which it vaguely conveyed to her--an indescribable air ofscrupulous neatness and cleanliness, a sense of virginal dulness. Butsuddenly a startling sense of the incongruity came upon her, that she,the opera-singer, Owen Asher's mistress, should be admitted into aconvent, should be received, the honoured guest of holy women. And shegot up, leaving the two priests to discuss the financial results of theconcert, and stood gazing out at the window. There was the rosery withthe lilac bushes shutting out the view of the green fields beyond; andthis was the portion of the garden given up to visitors and boarders.She used to walk there during the retreat. Away to the right was thebig, sunny garden where the nuns went for their daily recreation. Byspecial permission she had once been allowed there; she remembered thesloping lawns, the fringe of stately elms, and over them the viewwestward of Richmond Park. She thought of the nuns walking under theirtrees, half ghost-like, half sybil-like they used to seem in their greyhabits with their long grey veils falling picturesquely, their thoughtsfixed on an infinite life, and this life never seeming more to them thana little passing shadow.Evelyn returned slowly to the table. The priests were talking of theconvent choir; Monsignor turned to address a question to her, but beforehe spoke, the door opened and two nuns entered, hardly of this world didthey seem in their long grey habits.The Reverend Mother, a small, thin woman, with eager eyes and a nervous,intimate manner, hastened forward. Evelyn felt that the Reverend Mothercould not be less than sixty, yet she did not think of her as an oldwoman. Between her rapid utterances an expression of sadness came uponher face, instilled through the bright eyes, and Evelyn contrasted herwith Mother Philippa, the sub-prioress. Even the touch of these women'shands was different. There was a nervous emotion in the ReverendMother's hand. Mother Philippa's hand when it touched Evelyn's expressedsomehow a simpler humanity.She was a short, rather stout, homely-faced Englishwoman, aboutthirty-eight or forty, such a woman as is met daily on the croquet lawnsin our suburbs, probably one of three plain sisters, and never couldhave doubted her vocation."I cannot tell you how grateful we are, Miss Innes, for what you havedone for us. Monsignor will have told you of the straits we are in....But you are an old friend, I understand of our convent. Mother Philippa,our sub-prioress, tells me you made a retreat here seven or eight yearsago.""I don't think it was more than six years," Mother Philippa said,correcting the Reverend Mother. "I remember you very well, Miss Innes.You left us one Easter morning."Evelyn liked her plain, matter-of-fact face, a short faceundistinguished by any special characteristic, yet once seen it couldnot be forgotten, so implicit was it of her practical mind and a desireto serve someone."That silly Sister Agnes has forgotten the strawberry jam," she said,when the porteress brought in the tea. "I will run and fetch it; Ishan't be a moment.""Oh, Mother Philippa, pray don't trouble; I prefer some of that cake.""No, no, I've been thinking all the afternoon of this jam; we make itourselves; you must have some."The Reverend Mother apologised for having put sugar in Evelyn's tea, forshe remembered now that Evelyn had said that she did not like sugar; andMonsignor took advantage of the occasion to reassure the Reverend Motherthat the success of the concert had been much greater than he hadanticipated.... Thanks to Miss Innes, he hoped to be able to hand her acheque for more than two hundred pounds. This was more than double thesum she had hoped to receive."We shall always pray for you," she said, taking Evelyn's hand. "Icannot tell you what a load you have taken off my shoulders, for, ofcourse, the main responsibility rests upon me."Evelyn regretted that the nuns could not have tea with her, and wonderedwhether they were ever allowed to partake of their own excellenthome-made cake. She was beginning to enjoy her visit, and to acquire aninterest in the welfare of the convent. She had hitherto only devotedher money to selfish ends; but now she resolved that, if she could helpit, these poor sisters should not be driven from their convent. MotherPhillippa asked her suddenly why she had not been to see them before.Evelyn answered that she had been abroad. But living abroad meant to thenun the pleasure of living in Catholic countries, and she was eager toknow if Evelyn had had the privilege of going to Rome. She smiled at thenun's innocent curiosity, which she was glad to gratify, and told herabout the old Romanesque churches on the Rhine, and the hundred marblespires of the Cathedral of Milan. But in the midst of such pleasantconversation came an unfortunate question. Mother Philippa asked ifEvelyn had travelled with her father. Any simple answer would havesufficed, but she lost her presence of mind, and the "No," which came atlast was so weak and equivocal that the Reverend Mother divined in thatmoment some part of the truth. Evelyn sat as if tongue-tied, and it wasMonsignor who came to her rescue by explaining that she had sung in St.Petersburg, Vienna, Paris, and all the capitals of Europe."You must excuse us," the Reverend Mother said, "for not knowing, butthese things do not penetrate convent walls."The conversation dropped, and the Reverend Mother took advantage of theoccasion to suggest that they should visit the chapel.Mother Philippa walked on with the priests in front, leaving Evelyn withthe Reverend Mother."I am forced to walk very slowly on account of my heart. I hope youdon't mind, Miss Innes?""Your heart, Reverend Mother? You suffer from your heart? I'm so sorry."The Reverend Mother said the new chapel had been built by the celebratedCatholic architect, and mentioned how the last three years of theReverend Mother's life had been given over to this work Evelyn knew thatthe mouldings and carving and the stained glass had caused the pecuniaryembarrassments of the convent, and did not speak of them She was toldthat the architect had insisted that every detail should be in keeping,and understood that the thirteenth century had proved the ruin of theconvent; every minor decoration was faithful to it--the very patternsstitched in wool on the cushions of the _prie-dieu_ were strictly Gothicin character.Only the lower end of the nave was open to the public; the greater partwas enclosed within a high grille of gilded ironwork of an elaboratedesign, through which Evelyn could vaguely discern the plain oak stallsof the nuns on either side, stretching towards the ornate altar, carvedin white stone. And falling through the pointed windows, the long raysslanted across the empty chapel; in the golden air there was a faintsense of incense; it recalled the Benediction and the figures of thedeparted watchers who had knelt motionless all day before the elevatedHost. The faintly-burning lamp remained to inspire the mind withinstinctive awe and a desire of worship. And as always, in the presenceof the Blessed Sacrament, Evelyn's doubts vanished, and she knelt inmomentary prayer beside the two nuns.Then at her request they went into the garden. It was the part of theconvent she remembered best. She recognised at once the broad terracewalk extending the full length of the house, from the new wing to therose garden whence some steps led to the lower grounds. They wereseveral acres in extent and sloped gently to the south-west. TheReverend Mother and the priests had turned to the left; they hadbusiness matters to discuss and were going round the garden by the outerwalk. Evelyn and Mother Philippa chose the middle path. The sunset wasbefore them, and the wistfulness of a distant park sinking into bluemist. Evelyn thought that in all her travels she had never seen anythingso lovely as the convent garden in that evening light. It filled hersoul with an ecstatic sense of peace and joy, and a sudden passionatedesire to share this life of calm and happy seclusion brought tears toher eyes. She could not speak, but Mother Philippa, with a single, quickglance, seemed instinctively to understand, and it was in silence thatthey walked down a grassy path, that led between the narrow beds filledwith a gay tangle of old-fashioned flowers, to a little summer-house.Behind the summer-house, at the bottom of the garden, was a broad walkpleasantly shaded by the overhanging branches of the elms."We call this St. Peter's path," Mother Philippa said placidly, "and forhis feast the novices put up his statue in the summer-house and decorateit with flowers. They always come here for their mid-day recreation.""Your garden is quite lovely, Mother Philippa; I remember it all sowell."They wandered on, past the apple and plum trees laden with fruit--theymade a pretty orchard in one corner; and while the nun passed here andthere gathering flowers, Evelyn stood gazing, recalling all her girlishimpressions. Almost every turn in the walks recalled some innocentaspiration, some girlish feeling of love and reverence. In every nookthere was a statue of the Virgin, or a cross whereby the thoughts of thepasser-by might be recalled to the essential object of her life. Sheremembered how she had stopped one morning before the crucifix whichstood on the top of some rocks at the end of the garden. She had stoppedas in a dream, and for a long while had stood looking at the face of thedying Redeemer, praying to his Father for pardon for them thatpersecuted him. She had felt as if crazed with love, and had walked upthe pathway feeling that the one thing of worth in the world was to livefor him who had died for her. But she had betrayed him. She had chosenOwen!Mother Philippa added another flower to the bouquet. She looked at itand, regarding it as finished, she presented it to Evelyn."I hope I did not say anything that caused you pain in the parlour. If Idid you must know that I did not mean it. I I hope your father is quitewell.""Yes, he's quite well. You did not offend me, Mother Philippa," shesaid, raising her eyes, and in that moment the two women felt theyunderstood each other in some mute and far-off way."The day you left us was Easter Sunday. It was a beautiful morning, andyou walked round the rose garden with an old lady; she asked you tosing, and you sung her two little songs.""Yes, I remember; her hair was quite white, and she walked with astick.""I am glad you remember; I feared that you had forgotten, as you were solong coming back. I often prayed for you that you might come and see us.I always felt that you would come back, and when one feels like that, itgenerally happens."Evelyn raised her eyes, drawing delight from the nun's happy andcontented face. She experienced an exquisite idea, a holy intimacy offeeling; there was a breathless exaltation in the heavens and on theearth, and the wild cry of a startled bird darting through theshrubberies sounded like a challenge or defiance. The sunset grewnarrower in the slate-coloured sky, and the long plain of the commonshowed under two bars of belated purple. The priests and the ReverendMother went up the steps and were about to enter the convent. Evelyn andMother Philippa lingered by a distant corner of the garden marked bynine tall crosses."When I was here there were but six. I remember Sister Bonaventure, thinand white, and so weak that she could not move. She was dying far fromall she knew, yet she was quite happy. It was we who were unhappy.""She was happy, for her thoughts were set upon God. How could she beotherwise than happy when she knew she was going to him?"A few minutes after, Evelyn was bidding the nuns good-night. TheReverend Mother hoped that when she made another retreat she would betheir guest. Mother Philippa was disappointed that they had not heardher sing. Perhaps one day she might sing to them. They would see how itcould be arranged: perhaps at Benediction when she came to make anotherretreat. Evelyn smiled, and the carriage passed into the night.CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHTThe dawn crept through her closed eyelids, and burying her face in thepillows, she sought to retain the receding dream.But out of the gloom which she divined and through which a face looked,a face which she could not understand, but which she must follow, therecame a sound as of someone moving. The dream dissolved in the sound, sheopened her eyes, and upon her lips there was terror, and she could notmove.... Nor did she dare to look, and when her eyes turned towards thedoorway she could not see beyond it; she could not remember if she hadleft the door ajar. Shadows gathered, and again came the awful sound ofsomeone; she slipped under the bedclothes, and lay there stark, frozenwith terror. When she summoned sufficient courage, she looked towardsthe shadowy doorway, but the passage beyond it was filled with namelessforeboding shapes from an under-world; and the thought that the soundshe had heard had been caused by her clothes slipping from a chairfailed to reassure her. She was as cold as a corpse in a grave. She feltthat it was her duty to explore the dark, but to get out of bed to standin that grey room and look into the passage was more than she dared; shecould only lie still and endure the sensation of hands at her throat andbreath above her face.A little later she was able to distinguish the pattern of thewall-paper, and as she followed its design human life seemed black andintolerably loathsome. She strove against the thought, but she saw thecreature leer so plainly that there was no way of escaping from theconviction that what she had accepted as life was but a mask worn by aleper. The vision persisted for what seemed a long while, and when itfaded it was pictures of her own life that she read upon the wall; hersoul cried out against the miserable record of her sins, and turning onher pillow she saw the dawn--the inexorable light that was taking herback to life, to sin, and all the miserable routine of vanity andselfishness which she would have to begin again. She had left herfather, though she knew he would be lonely and unhappy without her. Shehad lived with Owen when she knew it was wrong, and she had acquiescedin his blasphemies, and by reading evil books she had striven toundermine her faith in God. It seemed to her incredible that anyoneshould be capable of such wickedness, yet she was that very one; shehad committed all sins, and in her great misery she wished herself dead,so that she might think no more.With eyes wide open to the dawn and to her soul she lay hour after hour.She heard the French clock strike six sharp strokes, and unable toendure her hot bed any longer, she got up, slipped her arms into adressing-gown, and went down to the drawing-room. It was filled with agrey twilight, and the street was grey-blue and silent save for thesparrows. Sitting on the edge of the sofa she remembered the convent.The nuns had thought her a good Catholic, and she had had to pretend shewas. Monsignor, it is true, had turned the conversation and saved herfrom exposure. But what then? She knew, and he knew, everyone knew; LadyAscott, Lady Mersey, Lady Duckle very probably didn't care, butappearances had to be preserved, and she had to tell lies to them all.Her life had become a network of lies. There was no corner of her lifeinto which she could look without finding a lie. She had been faithfulto no one, not even to Owen. She had another lover, and she had sentOwen away on account of scruples of conscience! She could not understandherself; she had taken Ulick to Dowlands and had lived with himthere--in her father's house. So awful did her life seem to her that herthoughts stopped, and she became possessed of the desire of escape whichtakes a trapped animal and forces it to gnaw off one of its legs. Shemust escape from this life of lies whatever it cost her; she must freeherself. But how? If she went to Monsignor he would tell her she mustleave the stage, and she had promised to create the part of Grania. Shehad promised, and she hated not keeping her promise. He would say it wasimpossible for her to remain on the stage and live a virtuous life; hewould tell her that she must refuse to see Owen. She was still very fondof him, and would like to see him sometimes. What reason could she giveto her friends for refusing to see him? what reason could she give forleaving the stage?--to do so would set everyone talking. Everyone wouldwant to know why; Lady Ascott, Lady Mersey, all her friends. How was sheto separate herself from her surroundings? Wherever she went she wouldbe known. Her friends would follow her, lovers would follow her,temptations would begin again, would she have strength to resist? "Notalways," was the answer her heart gave back. A great despair fell uponher, and she walked up the room. Stopping at the window she looked out,and all reform of her life seemed to her impossible. She was hemmed inon every side. If she could only think of it no more! She had adopted anevil life and must pursue it to the end. She must be wretched in thislife, and be punished eternally in the next.Hearing a footstep on the stairs, she drew herself behind the door, andwhen the sound passed downstairs she tried to reason with herself. Afterall, the housemaid would have been merely surprised to find her in thedrawing-room at that hour. She could not have guessed why she was there.She ran up the stairs, and when she had closed the door of her room shestood looking at the clock. It was not yet seven, and Herat did not cometo her room till half-past nine. She must try to get to sleep betweenthis and then. She lay with her eyes closed, and did not perceive that athin, shallow sleep had come upon her, for she continued to think thesame thoughts; fear of God and hatred of sin assumed even moreterrifying proportions, and she started like a hunted animal when Meratcame in with her bath. "I hope Mademoiselle is not ill?" "No, I am notill, only I have not slept at all."In order to distract her thoughts, she went for a walk after breakfastin the park, but any casual sight sufficed to recall them to the oneimportant question. She could not see the children sailing their toyboats without thinking her ambitions were as futile, and a chanceglimpse of a church spire frightened her so that she turned her back andwalked the other way. In the afternoon she tried to interest herself insome music, but her hands dropped from the keys, so useless did itappear to her. At four she was dreaming of Owen in an armchair. Theservant suddenly announced him, and he came in, seemingly recovered fromhis gout and his old age. His figure was the perfect elegance of a manof forty-three, and in such beautiful balance that an old admirationawakened in her. His "waistcoats and his valet," she thought, catchingsight of the embroideries and the pale, subdued, terrified air of thepersonal servant. The valet carried a parcel which Evelyn guessed to bea present for her. It was a tea-service of old Crown Derby that Owen hadhappened upon in Bath, and they spent some time examining its pale rosesand gilt pattern. She expected him to refer to their last interview, buthe avoided doing so, preferring to take it for granted that he still washer lover, and he did so without giving her sufficient occasion tocorrect him on this point. He was affectionate and intimate; he satbeside her on the sofa, and talked pleasantly of the benefit he hadderived from the waters, of the boredom of hotel life, and of a concertgiven in aid of a charity."But that reminds me," he said; "I heard about the Wimbledon concert,and was sorry you did not write to me for a subscription. LadyMerrington told me about the nuns; they spent all their money building achapel, and had not enough to eat.""I didn't think you would care to subscribe to a convent.""Now, why did you think that? Poor devils of nuns, shut up in a conventwithout enough to eat. Of course I'll subscribe; I'll send them a chequefor ten pounds to-morrow."This afternoon, whether by accident or design, he said no word thatmight jar on her religious scruples; he even appeared to sympathise withreligious life, and admitted that the world was not much, and torenounce the world was sublime. The conversation paused, and he said, "Ithink the tea-service suits the room. You haven't thanked me for it yet,Evelyn.""I don't know that I ought to accept any more presents from you. I haveaccepted too much as it is."She was conscious of her feebleness. It would have been better to havesaid, "I am another man's mistress," but she could not speak the words,and he asked if they might have tea in the new service. She did notanswer, so he rang, and when the servant left the room he took her handsand drew her closer to him. "I am another man's mistress, you must nottouch me," rang in her brain, but he did not kiss her, and the truth wasnot spoken."Lady Duckle is still at Homburg, is she not?" he asked, but he wasthinking of the inexplicable event each had been in the other's life.They had wandered thus far, now their paths divided, for nothingendures. That is the sadness, the incurable sadness! He was getting tooold for her; in a few more years he would be fifty. But he had hopedthat this friendship would continue to the end of the chapter. And whilehe was thinking these things, Evelyn was telling him that Lady Ducklehad met Lady Mersey at Homburg, and had gone on with her to Lucerne,where they hoped to meet Lady Ascott."You are going to shoot with Lord Ascott next month?" she said, andlooking at him she wondered if their relations were after all no morethan a chance meeting and parting. While he spoke of Lord Ascott'spheasant shooting, she felt that whatever happened neither could divorcethe other from his or her faults."How beautiful the park is now, I like the view from your windows. Ilike this hour; a sense of resignation is in the air.""Yes," she said, "the sky is beautifully calm," and she experienced areturn of old tendernesses, and she had no scruple, for he did not makelove to her, and did not kiss her until he rose to leave. Then he kissedher on the forehead and on the cheek, and refrained from asking if theywere reconciled.Never had he been nicer than he had been that afternoon, and she darednot look into her heart, for she did not wish to think that she wouldsend him away. Why should she send him away? why not the other? Shecould not answer this question; she only knew that the choice had fallenupon Owen. She must send him away, but what reasons should she give? Shefelt that her conduct that afternoon had rendered a complete rupture intheir relations more difficult than ever. It was as she lay sleepless inbed long after midnight that the solution of the difficulty suddenlysounded in her brain. She must write to him saying that he might come tosee her once more, but that it must be for the last time. This was theway out of her difficulty, and she turned over in her bed, feeling shemight now get to sleep. But instead of sleep there began the very wordsof this last interview, and her brain teemed with different plans forescape from her lover. She saw herself on ocean steamers, in desertisles, and riding wild horses through mountain passes. Barred doors,changes of name, all means were passed and reviewed; each was in turndismissed, and the darkness about her bed was like a flame. There was nodoubt that she was doomed to another night of insomnia. The bell of theFrench clock struck three, and, quite exhausted, she got up and walkedabout the room. "In another hour I shall hear the screech of the sparrowon the window-sill, and may lie awake till Merat comes to call me." Shelay down, folded her arms, closed her eyes and began to count the sheepas they came through the gate. But thoughts of Owen began to loom up,and in spite of her efforts to repress them, they grew more and moredistinct. The clock struck four, and soon after it seemed to her thatthe darkness was lightening. For a long while she did not dare to openher eyes. At last she had to open them, and the grey-blue light wasindescribably mournful. Again her life seemed small, black and evil. Shejumped out of bed, passed her arms into a tea-gown, and paced the room.She must see Owen. She must tell him the truth. Once he knew the truthhe would not care for her, and that would make the parting easier forboth. She did not believe that this was so, but she had to believesomething, and she went down to the drawing-room and wrote--"DEAR OWEN--You may come and see me to-morrow if you care to. I amafraid that your visit will not be a pleasant one. I don't think I couldbe an agreeable companion to anyone at present, but I cannot send youaway without explaining why. However painful that explanation may be toyou, there is at all events this to be said, that it will be doublypainful to me. I am not, dear Owen, ungrateful; that you should think meso is the hardest punishment of all, and I am sorry I have not made youhappier. I know other women don't feel as I do, but I can't changemyself. I feel dreadfully hypocritical writing in this strain. I, lessthan anyone have a right to do so, especially now. But you will try tounderstand. You know that I am not a hypocrite at heart. I am determinedto tell you all, and you will then see that no course is open to me butto send you away. Even if you were to promise that we should be friendswe must not see each other, but I don't think that you would care to seeme on those terms. I should have stopped you yesterday when you took myhand, when you kissed me, but I was weak and cowardly. Somehow I couldnot bring myself to tell you the truth. I shall expect you in theafternoon, and will tell you all. I am punishing myself as well as you.So please don't try to make things more difficult than they are.--Yoursvery sincerely, EVELYN INNES."Leaving this letter with directions that it should be posted at once,weary, and with her brain as clear as crystal, she threw herself uponher bed. Folding her arms, she closed her eyes, and strove to banishthoughts of Owen and the confession she was to make that afternoon. Butwhen sleep gathered about her eyes, the memory of past sins, at firstdense, then with greater clearness, shone through, and the traitor sleepmoved away. Or she would suddenly find herself in the middle of theinterview, the entire dialogue standing clear cut in her brain, shecould almost see the punctuation of every sentence. Once more shecounted the sheep coming through the gate; she counted and counted,until her imagination failed her, and in spite of herself, her eyesopened upon the dreaded room. She heard the clock strike nine. Meratwould knock at her door in another half-hour, and she lay waiting,fearing her arrival. But at last her face grew quieter, she seemed tosee Monsignor vaguely, she could not tell where nor how he had come toher, but she heard him saying distinctly that she must never sing Isoldeagain. He seemed to bar her way to the stage, and the music that was tobring her on sounded in her ears, yet she could see the shape of herroom and its furniture. A knock came at the door, and she was surprisedto find that she had been asleep.Her brain was a ferment; it seemed as if it were about to fall out ofher head; she feared the day, its meal times and the long hours ofmorning and evening sunshine. The idea of the coming interview with Owenwas intolerable. Her brain was splitting, she could not think of whatshe would say. But her letter had gone! After breakfast she felt alittle rested, and went into the park and remained there till lunchtime, dimly aware of the open air, the waving of branches, the sound ofhuman voices. Beyond these, and much more distinct, was a vision of herevil life, and the cold, stern face of the priest watching her. Shewandered about, and then hastened back to Park Lane. Owen had been. Hehad left word that he would call again about three o'clock. He wouldhave stayed, but had an engagement to lunch with friends. She lunchedalone, and was sitting on the corner of the sofa, heavy-eyed and weary,but determined to be true to her resolutions, when the servant announcedhim. He came in hurriedly, his hat in his hand, and his eyes went atonce to where she was sitting. He saw she was looking ill, but therewere more important matters to speak of."I came at once, the moment I got your letter. I should have waited, butI was lunching with Lady Merrington. Such terribly boring people werethere. It was all I could do to prevent myself from rushing out of theroom. But, Evelyn, what are you determined to tell me? I thought weparted good friends yesterday. You have been thinking it over.... You'regoing to send me away." He sat beside her, he held his hat in bothhands, and looked perplexed and worried. "But, Evelyn"--she sat like afigure of stone, there was no colour in her cheeks nor any expression inher eyes or mouth--"Evelyn, I am afraid you are ill, you are pale as aghost.""I did not sleep last night, nor the night before.""Two nights of insomnia are enough to break anyone up. I am very sorry,Evelyn, dear--you ought to go away." Her silence perplexed him, and hesaid, "Evelyn, I have come to ask you to be my wife. Don't keep me insuspense. Will you give up the stage and be my wife? Why don't youanswer? Oh, Evelyn, is it--are you married?""No, I am not married, Owen. I don't suppose I ever shall be. If you hadwished to marry me--""I know all that, that if I wanted to marry you I ought to have done solong ago. But you said you were determined to tell me something--what isit?" The expression of her face did not change; her lips moved a little,she cast down her eyes, and said, "I've got another lover."He felt that he ought to get very angry, and that to do so was in a wayexpected of him. He thought he had better say something energetic, lestshe should think that he did not care for her. But he was so overcome bythe thought of his escape--it was now no longer possible for her to sendhim away--that he could think of nothing. It even seemed to him thateverything was happening for the best, for he did not doubt that shewould soon tire, if she were not tired already, of this musician, andthen he would easily regain his old influence over her. Even if she didmarry this musician, she'd get tired of him, and then who knows--anything was better than that she should go over to that infernalpriest. While rejoicing in the defeat of his hated rival, he was anxiousthat Evelyn should not perceive what was passing in his mind, and,afraid to betray himself, he said nothing, leaving her to conjecturewhat she pleased from his silence."I don't intend to defend my conduct; it is indefensible.... But, Owen,I want you to believe that I did not lie to you. Ulick was not my loverwhen I went to see you that evening in Berkeley Square."It was necessary to say something, and, feeling that any unguarded wordwould jeopardise his chances, he said--"I think I told you that night that you liked Ulick Dean. I can quiteunderstand it; he is a nice fellow enough. Are you going to marry him?""No, I am not in love with him--I never was. I liked him merely.""I can understand; all those hours you spent with him studying Isolde.""Yes, it was that music, it gets on one's nerves.... But, Owen, there isno excuse.""We'll think no more about it, Evelyn. I am glad you do not love him.My greatest fear was to lose you altogether."She was touched by his kindness, as he expected she would be, and he satlooking at her, keeping as well as he could all expression from hisface. He thought that he had got over the greatest difficulty, and hecongratulated himself on his cleverness. The question now was, what wasthe next move?"You are not looking very well, Evelyn. You don't sleep--you want achange. The _Medusa_ is at Cowes; what do you say for a sail?""Owen, dear, I cannot go with you. If I did, you know how it would end,I being what I am, and you being what you are. There would be no sensein my going yachting unless I went as your mistress, and I cannot dothat.""You love that fellow Ulick Dean too much.""I don't love him at all.... Owen, you will never understand.""Understand!" he cried, starting to his feet, "this is madness, Evelyn.I see! I suppose you think it wrong to have two lovers at the same time.Grace has come to you through sin. You are going to get rid of both ofus."Evelyn sat quite still as if hypnotised. She was very sorry for him, butfor no single moment did she think she would yield.Suddenly he asked her why he should be the one to be sent away, and hepleaded the rights of old friendship, going even so far as to suggestthat even if she liked Ulick better she should not refuse to see himsometimes."I have no right to seem shocked at anything you may say. I told youUlick was my lover, but I did not say he was going to remain my lover.""Then what are you going to do? Will that priest get hold of you? I knowhim--I was at Eton with him. He always was--" and Owen mutteredsomething under his breath. "Surely, Evelyn, you are not thinking ofgoing to confession. After all my teaching has it come to this? My God!"he said, as he walked up the room, "I'd sooner Ulick got you than thatdamned hypocritical fool. You are much too good for God," he said,turning suddenly and looking at her, remarking at that moment the prettyoval of her face, the arched eyebrows, the clear, nervous eyes. "You'llbe wasted on religion.""From your point of view, I suppose I shall be."They talked on and on, saying what they had said many times before.Sometimes Evelyn seemed to follow his arguments, and thinking that hewas convincing her, he would break off suddenly. "Well, will you comefor a cruise with me in the _Medusa_? I'll ask all your friends--we'llhave such a pleasant time.""No, Owen, no, it's impossible, you don't understand. I don't blameyou--you never will understand."And they looked at each other like wanderers standing on the straitsdividing two worlds. The hands of the clock pointed to five o'clock. Theservants had taken the tea-service away. Owen had urged Evelyn not toabandon the stage; he had urged the cause of Art; he had urged that hervoice was her natural vocation; he had spoken of their love, and of thehappiness they had found in each other--the conversation had driftedfrom an argument concerning the authenticity of the Gospels to a lakewhere they had spent a season five years ago. She saw again the reedyreaches and the steep mountain shores. They had been there in the monthof September, and the leaves of the vine were drooping, and the grapesready for gathering. They had been sweethearts only a little while, andthe drives about the lake was one of his happiest memories."Evelyn, you cannot mean that you will never see me again?"His eyes filled with tears, and she turned her head aside so that shemight not see them."Life is very difficult, Owen; try not to make it more difficult.""Evelyn, I had hoped that our friendship would have continued to theend. I never cared for any other woman, and when you are my age and lookback, you will find that there is one, I don't say I shall be the one,who--" His voice trembled, and he passed his hand across his eyes."It's very sad, Owen, and life is very difficult.... There is thisconsolation for you, that I am not sending you away on account of anyoneelse. Ulick must go too.""That does not make it any better for me. By God, I'd sooner that he gotyou than that infernal religion. Evelyn, Evelyn, it is impossible thatan idea, a mere idea, should take you from me. It is inhuman, unnatural,I can't realise it!""Owen, you must go now.""Evelyn, I don't understand. It is just as if you told me you weretallow, and would melt if there was a fire lighted. But never mind, I'llaccept your ideas--I'll accept anything. Let us be married to-morrow."She was frightened in the depths of her feelings, and seemed to lose allcontrol of her will."Owen, I cannot marry you. Why do you ask me? You know it is now morethan ever impossible."His face changed expression, but he was urged forward by an irresistibleforce that seemed to rise up from the bottom of his being and blind hiseyes."You don't love him, it was only a caprice; we'll think no more aboutit."She sought the truth in her soul, but it seemed to elude her. She waslike a blind person in a vague, unknown space, and not being able todiscover the reason why she refused him, she insisted that Ulick was thereason."Are you going to marry him?""No, I don't think so.""Don't you wish to? He is your father's friend."She shrugged her shoulders."Destiny, I suppose."The question was too profound for discussion, and they sat silent for along while. A chance remark turned their talk upon Balzac, and Owenspoke about _Le Lys dans la Vallee_, and she asked him if he rememberedthe day he had first spoken to her about Balzac."It was the day you took me to the races, our first week in Paris.""And a few days afterwards I took you to Madame Savelli's. She told youthat you had the most beautiful voice she had ever heard. You could notspeak; you were so excited that I was obliged to send you off for adrive in the Bois. Do you remember?""Yes, I remember.... You were always very good to me."They talked on and on, conscious of the hands of the clock moving ontowards their divided lives. When it struck seven, she said he must go,but he begged to be allowed to stay till a quarter past, and in thislast period he urged that their separation should not be final. Hepleaded that a time should be set on his alienation, and ended byextracting from her a sort of half promise that she would allow him tocome and see her in three months. But he and she knew that they wouldnever meet again, and the sad thought floated up into their eyes as theysaid good-bye. She went to the window, wondering if he would stay amoment to look back. He stood on the edge of the pavement, and shewatched him unmoved. She was thinking of Monsignor, and of how he wouldapprove of her conduct. He would tell her that what she liked anddisliked was no longer the question. Owen still stood on the kerb, butshe did not even see him. Her eyes looked into the sunset, and she wasthrilled with a mysterious joy, a joy that came from the heart, not frompassions, and it was exquisitely subtle as the light that faded in theremote west.CHAPTER TWENTY-NINEHe walked up Park Lane, staring now and then at the quaint balconiesfrom a mere habit of admiration. But all were indifferent to him, eventhe one supported by the four Empire figures. It did not seem thatanything in the world could interest him again, and he wondered how hewould get through the years that remained to him to live. He was tiredof hunting and shooting; he had seen everything there was to be seen; hehad been round the world twice; it did not seem to him that he wouldever care for another woman, and he reflected with pride that he hadbeen faithful to Evelyn for six years. "But I shall never see heragain," his heart wailed; "in three months she'll be a different woman;she won't want to see me, she'll find some excuse. That infernal priestwill refuse his absolution if--" Owen stopped suddenly. Far away alittle pink cloud dissolved mysteriously. "In another second," hethought, "it will be no more." In the Green Park the trees rocked in thesoft autumn air, and he noticed that now and then a leaf broke from itstwig, fluttered across the path, and fell by the iron railings."Well, Asher, how is it that you are in town at this time of year?"It was a club acquaintance, one of the ordinary conventional men thatOwen met by the dozen in every one of his clubs, a man whose nextquestion would surely be, "How are your two-year-olds?""I should like to hear that they had all broken their legs," Owenanswered through his teeth, and the colour mounted in his cheeks."Asher always was mad ... now he seems madder than ever. What did hemean by saying he wished his two-year-olds had all broken their legs?"Owen lingered on the kerb, inveighing against the stupidity of his set.He had thought of dining at the Turf Club, but after this irritatingincident he felt that he dared not risk it; if anyone were to speak tohim again of his two-year-olds, he felt he would not be able to controlhimself. Suddenly he thought of a friend. He must speak to someone....He need mention no names. He put up his stick and stopped a hansom. Afew minutes took him to Harding's rooms.The unexpectedness of the visit, and the manner in which Owen strodeabout the room, trying to talk of the things that he generally talkedabout, while clearly thinking of something quite different, struckHarding as unusual, and a suspicion of the truth had just begun to dawnupon him, when, breaking off suddenly, Owen said--"Swear you'll never speak of what I am going to say--and don't ask fornames.""I'll tell no one," said Harding, "and the name does not interest me.""It's this: a woman whom I have known many years--a friendship that Ithought would go on to the end of the chapter--told me to-day that itwas all finished, that she never wanted to see me again.""A friendship! Were you her lover?""What does it matter? Suffice it to say that she was my dearest friend,and now I have lost her. She has been taken from me," he said, throwinghis arms into the air. It was a superb gesture of despair, and Hardingcould not help smiling."So Evelyn has left him. I wonder for whom?" Then, with as much sympathyas he could call into his voice, he asked if the lady had given anyreason for this sudden dismissal."Only that she thinks it wrong; we've been discussing it all theafternoon. It has made me quite ill;" and he dropped into a chair.Harding knew perfectly well of whom they were speaking, and Owen knewthat he knew, but it seemed more decorous to refrain from mentioningnames, and Evelyn's soul was discussed as if it were an abstractquantity, and all indication of the individual incarnation was avoided.Owen admitted that, notwithstanding many seeming contradictoryappearances, Evelyn had always thought it wrong to live with him, andyet, notwithstanding her being very fond of him, she had never shown anyeagerness to be married. "Of course it is very wrong," she would say inher own enchanting way, "but a lover is very exciting, and a husbandalways seems dull. I don't think you'd be half as nice as a husband asyou are as a lover." The recital of the Florence episode interestedHarding, but it was the opposition of the priest and the musician thatmade the story from his point of view one of the most fascinating he hadever heard in his life.They dined together in an old-fashioned club, in a room lighted by waxcandles in silver candlesticks. Tall mirrors in gold frames reflectedthe black mahogany furniture. In answer to Owen, who lamented thatEvelyn was sacrificing everything for an idea, Harding spoke, and withhis usual conscious exaltation, of the Christian martyrs, the SpanishInquisition, and then Robespierre seemed to him the most strikingexample of what men will do for an idea. He mentioned a portrait byGreuze in which Robespierre appears as a beautiful young man. "Such aface," he said, "as we might imagine for a lover or a poet, a sort ofLucien de Rubempre, but in his brain there was a cell containing thepedantic idea, and for this idea he cut off a thousand heads, and wouldhave cut off a million. The world must conform to his idea, or it was alost world."Towards the end of dinner, the head waiter interrupted theirconversation. He lingered about the table, anxious to hear something ofLord Ascott's two-year-olds; but, in the smoking-room over their coffee,they returned to the more vital question--the sentimental affections.They were agreed that the pleasure of love is in loving, not in beingloved, and their reasons were incontrovertible."It is the letters," said Harding, "that we write at three in themorning to tell her how enchanting she was; it is the flowers we send,the words of love that we speak in her ear, that are our undoing. Solong as we are indifferent, they love us.""Quite true. At first I did not care for her as much as she did for me,and I noticed that as soon as I began to fall in love--""To aspire, to suffer. Maybe there is no deep pleasure in contentment.In casting you out she has given you a more intense life."Owen did not seem to understand. His eye wandered, then returning toHarding, he said--"We cannot worship and be worshipped; is that what you mean? If so, Iagree with you. But I'd sooner lose her as I have done than not havetold her that I loved her.... There never was anyone like her. Sympathy,understanding, appreciation and enthusiasm! it was like living in adream. Good God! to think that that priest should have got her; that,after all my teaching, she should think it wrong to have a lover! Idon't know if you know of whom we are speaking. If you suspect, I can'thelp it, but don't ask me. I shouldn't speak of her at all; it is wrongto speak of her, even though I don't mention her name, but it isimpossible to help it. If you are proud of a woman you must speak ofher--and I was so proud of her. It is very easy to be discreet when youare ashamed of them," he added, with a laugh. "When I had nothing to do,I used to sit down and think of her, and I used to say to myself that ifI were the king of the whole world I could not get anything better. Butit is all over now.""Well, you've had six years, the very prime of her life.""That's true; you're very sympathetic, Harding. Have another cigarette.I was faithful to her for six years--you can't understand that, but itis quite true, and I had plenty of chances, but, when I came to thinkof it, it always seemed that I liked her the best."At the same moment Evelyn stood on her balcony, watching the evening.The park was breathless, and the sky rose high and pale, and calm asmarble. But the houses seemed to speak unutterable things, and sheclosed the window and stood looking across the room. Then walkingtowards the sofa as if she were going to sit down, she flung herselfupon it and buried her face among the cushions. She lay there weeping,and when she raised her face she dashed the tears from her streamingcheeks, but this pause was only the prelude to another passionateoutbreak, and she wept again, finding in tears fatigue, and in fatiguerelief. She sobbed until she could sob no more, and so tired was shethat she no longer cared what happened; very tired, and her head heavy,she went upstairs, eager for sleep. And closing her eyes she felt adelicious numbing of sense, a dissolution of her being into darkness....But in her waking there was a consciousness, a foreboding of a namelessdread, of a heavy weight upon her, and when the foreboding in her earsgrew louder, she seemed to know that an irreparable calamity hadhappened, and trying to fathom it, she saw the wall-paper, and it toldher she was in her own room. She seemed to be trying to read somethingon it, but what she was trying to read and understand seemed to moveaway, and her brain laboured in anxious pursuit. Her eyes opened, andshe remembered her interview with Owen. She had sent him away, sheunderstood it all now, she had sent Owen away! She had told him thatUlick was her lover, so even if he were to come back it never could bethe same as it was. Why had she told him about Ulick? It was bad enoughto send him away, but she had degraded his memory of her, and thethought that she had not deceived him, but had told him what heotherwise might never have known, did not console her just then. She layquite still, face to face with, seeing as it were into the eyes of theIrreparable. Never again would a man hold her in his arms, saying,"Darling, I am very fond of you!" Take love out of her life, and whatbarrenness, what weariness! After all, she was only seven-and-twenty,and the thought came upon her that she might have waited until she was alittle older. The word "never" rang in her ears, and she realised as shehad not done before all that a lover meant to her--romance, adventure,the brilliancy and sparkle of life. What was life without the delightfulexcitement of the chase, the delicious doubts regarding the hiddensignificance of every look and word, then the rapture of the finalabandonment? She tried to think that the life she proposed to relinquishhad not brought her happiness, but she could not put back memory of theenchanting days she had spent with her lovers. Oh, the intense hours ofanticipation! and the wonderful recollections! rich and red as theheart of a flower! Such rapture seemed to her to be worth the remorsethat came after, and the peace of mind that a chaste life would secure,a poor recompense for dreary days and months. She realised the lengthand the colour of the time--grey week after grey week, blank month afterblank month, void year after void year! And she always getting a littleolder, getting older in a drab, lifeless time, in a lifeless life, aweary life filled with intolerable craving! She had endured it once, afeeling as if she wanted to go mad.... She picked up her letters.Among the letters she received that morning was one from Ulick. He wasstill in Paris, and would not be back for another week or ten days. Hehad been lonely, he had missed her, and looked forward to their meeting.He told her about the opera, the people he had met, and what they hadsaid about his music. But the tender affection of his letter was not toher mind. Why did he not say that he longed to take her in his arms andkiss her on the lips? Knitting her brows, she tried to think that if hehad written more passionately she would have taken the train and gone tohim. She had sent Owen away on account of scruples of conscience, and alife of chastity extended indefinitely before her. But who was thiswoman to whom Ulick had shown his music, and who had said that ifanything happened to prevent Evelyn Innes from singing the part, shehoped that Ulick would give it to her? Why should she have thought thatsomething would happen to prevent Evelyn Innes from creating Grania? HadUlick suggested it to her? But how could Ulick know? She tried to thinkif she had ever told him she was tired of the stage. Perhaps he hadconsulted the stars and had divined her future. This woman seemed toknow that something might happen, and something was happening, therecould be no doubt about that.There was no doubt that she was tired of the stage, but perhaps that wason account of hard work, perhaps she required a rest; in two or threemonths she might return eagerly to the study of Grania; for the sake ofUlick, she might remain on the stage till she had established thesuccess of his opera. This might be if she and Ulick were not lovers.She had promised Owen that she would not keep him for her lover, butthat did not mean that she would not sing his opera. If she didn't,another woman would, some wretched singer who did not understand themusic, and it would be a failure. Ulick would hate her; he would believethat her refusal to sing his opera was a vile plan to do him an injury.He did not know what conscience meant--he only understood the legendsand the Gods! She laughed, and a moment afterwards was submerged indifficulties. Her conduct would seem more incomprehensible to him thanit did to Owen; she did not wish him to hate her, but he would hate her,and to avoid seeing her he would not go to Dowlands, and so she wouldrob her father of his friend--the friend who had kept him company whenshe deserted him. There was another alternative. If she liked him wellenough to be his mistress, she should like him well enough to be hiswife. But knowing that she would not marry him, she took up her otherletters and began reading them.Lady Duckle liked Homburg; everyone was there, and she hoped Evelynwould not be detained in London much longer. The Duke of Berwick hadproposed to Miss Beale, and Lady Mersey was always about with young Mr.So-and-So. Evelyn didn't read it all. She lay back thinking, for thisletter, about things that interested her no longer, had led her thoughtsback to self, and she inquired why in the midst of all her enjoymentsshe had felt that her real life was elsewhere, why she had always knownthat sooner or later the hour would come when she would leave the thingswhich she enjoyed so intensely. The idea of departure had never quitedied down in her, and she had always known that she would be one dayquite a different woman. She had often had glimpses of her future selfand of her future life, but the moment she tried to distinguish what wasthere, the vision faded. Even now she knew that she would not marryUlick, and this not because she would refuse her father anything, butmerely because it was not to be. Her eyes went to the piano, but on theway there she stopped to ask herself a question. Why was she in Londonat this time of year? She knew why she did not care to go toHomburg--because she was tired of society. But why did she not go tosome quiet seaside place where she could enjoy the summer weather? Shewould like to sit on the beach and hear the sea. Her soul threatened togive back a direct answer, and she dismissed the question.She paced the empty alley facing the Bayswater Road. No one was thereexcept a nursemaid and a small child, and she and they shared thesolitude. She could see the omnibuses passing, and hear the clank of theheavy harness, and seated on one of the seats she drew diagrams on thegravel with her parasol. Owen said there was no meaning in life, that itwas no more than an unfortunate accident between two eternal sleeps. Butshe had never been able to believe that this was so; and if she hadsought to disbelieve in God, it was as Monsignor had said, because shewished to lead a sinful life. And if she could not believe inannihilation, there could be no annihilation for her, that was Ulick'stheory. The name of her lover brought up the faded Bloomsbury Square,the litter of manuscript and the books on magic! She had tried tobelieve in readings of the stars. But such vague beliefs had not helpedher. In spite of all her efforts, the world was slipping behind her;Owen and Ulick and her stage career seemed very little compared with thecertainty within her that she was leading a sinful life, and she wasonly really certain of that. The omnibuses in the road outside, therailways beyond the town, the ships upon the sea, what were these thingsto her--or yet the singing of operas? The only thing that reallymattered was her conscience.Then, almost without thinking at all, in a sort of stupor, she walkedover the hill and descended the slope, and leaning over the balustradeshe looked at the fountains. But the splashing water explained nothing,and she turned to resume her walk; and she reflected that to send awayher lovers would avail her nothing, unless she subsequently confessedher sins and obtained the priest's absolution. Monsignor would tell herthat to send away her lovers was not sufficient, and he would refuse hisabsolution unless she promised him not to see them any more. Thatpromise she could not give, for she had promised Ulick that she wouldsing Grania, and she had promised Owen to see him in three months. Itseemed to her both weak and shameful to break either of these promises.The spire of Kensington Church showed sharp as a needle on a calm sky,and it was in a sudden anguish of mind that she determined that herrepentance must be postponed. She had considered the question from everypoint of view, and could not at once reverse her life; the change mustcome gradually. She had sent Owen away; that was enough for the present.The numerous pea-fowls had gathered in a bare roosting tree on anopposite hillside, and the immense tails of the cock-birds swept theevening sky. Owen would have certainly compared it to a picture byHonderhoker. The ducks clambered out of the water, keeping their cunningblack eyes fixed on the loitering children whom the nursemaid was urgingto return home. In Kensington Gardens, the glades were green and gold,and for some little while Evelyn watched the delicate spectacle of thefading light, and insensibly she began to feel that a life of spiritualendeavour was the only life possible to her, and that, however much itmight cost her, she must make the effort to attain it. Even to feel thatshe was capable of desiring this ideal life was a delicious happiness,and her thoughts flowed on for a long while, unmindful of practicaldifficulties. Suddenly it came upon her like a sudden illumination, thatsooner or later she would have to make all the sacrifices that thisideal demanded, that she would not have any peace of mind until she hadmade them. But even at the same moment the insuperable difficulties ofthe task before her appeared, and she despaired. The last obstacle wasmoney. As she crossed the road dividing Kensington Gardens from HydePark, she understood that the simple fact of owing a few thousand poundsrendered her immediate retirement from the stage impossible. She hadinsisted that the money she required to live in Paris and study withMadame Savelli should be considered as a debt, which she would repay outof her first earnings. But Owen had laughed at her. He had refused toaccept it, and he would never tell her the rent of the house in the RueBalzac; he had urged that as he had made use of the house he could notallow her to pay for it. In the rough, she supposed that a thousandpounds would settle her debt for the year they had spent in Paris.Since then she had, however, insisted on keeping herself, but now thatshe came to think it out, it did not seem that she had done much morethan pay her dressmaker's bills. She grew alarmed at the amount of herdebt, which seemed in her excited imagination so large that all hersavings, amounting to about six or seven thousand pounds, would notsuffice to pay it off. Most of her jewellery had been given to her byOwen; there was the furniture, the pictures and the china in Park Lane!She would have to return all these, and the horses, too, if she wishedto pay everything, and the net result would be that she would mortallyoffend the man who had done everything for her. She knew he would notforgive her if she sent back the presents he had made her, nor could sheblame him, and she decided that such complete restitution wasimpossible. But, for all she knew, Monsignor might insist upon it. If hedid? She felt that she would go mad if she did not put aside thesescruples, which she knew to be in a measure fictitious, but which shewas nevertheless unable to shake off. And she could not help thinking,though she knew that such thoughts were both foolish and unjust, thatOwen had purposely contrived this thraldom. Then there was only onething for her to do, to go to Paris after Ulick.... A moment after therecame a sinking feeling. She knew that she could not. But what was she todo? All this uncertainty was loosening her brain.... She might go toMonsignor and lay the whole matter before him and take his advice. Butshe knew if she went to him she must confess. Better that, she thought,than that the intolerable present should endure.Mental depression and sleepless nights had produced nervous pains in herneck and arms. She could hardly drag herself along for very weariness.The very substance of her being seemed to waste away; that amount ofunconsciousness without which life is an agony had been abstracted,leaving nothing but a fierce mentality.She slept a little after dinner, and awakening about eleven, she foresawanother night of insomnia. The chatter of her conscience continued,tireless as a cricket, and she had lost hope of being able to silenceit. The hysterical tears of last night had brought her four hours ofsleep, but there was no chance of any repetition of them. It would beuseless to go upstairs. She sang through the greater part of"Lohengrin," and then took up the "Meistersinger," and read it till itfell from her hands. ... It was three o'clock; and feeling very tired,she thought that she might be able to sleep. But all night long she sawher life from end to end. Her miserable passage through this life, theweakness of her character and the vileness of her sins were shown to herin a hideous magnification. She was exhibited to herself like an insectin a crystal, and she perceived the remotest antennae of her being.CHAPTER THIRTYOne night it occurred to her that she might ring for Merat and send herto the chemist's for a sleeping draught. But it was four o'clock in themorning, and she did not like to impose such a task on her maid.Moreover, she might get to sleep a little later on, so she wrote on apiece of paper that Merat was not to come to her room until she rang forher, and she lay down and folded her arms, and once more began to countthe sheep through the gate. But that night sleep seemed further thanever from her eyes, and at eight she was obliged to ring. "Merat, I havenot closed my eyes all night.""Mademoiselle ought to have a sleeping draught.""Yes, I'll take one to-night Get me some tea. Another night like thiswill drive me mad."Late in the afternoon she slept for an hour in an armchair, and, alittle rested, went to walk in the park. She was not feeling so dazed;her brain was not so light, and the sense of whiteness was gone; thepains in the neck and arms too had died down; they were now like a dimsuggestion, a memory. But the greatest relief of all was that she wasnot thinking, conscience was quiescent and in the calm of the eveningand the gentleness of the light, life seemed easier to bear. If shecould only get a night's sleep! Now she did not know which was theworst--the reality, the memory, or the anticipation of a sleeplessnight. She had wandered round the park by the Marble Arch, and hadcontinued her walk through Kensington Gardens, and sitting on thehillside by the Long Water, with the bridge on her left hand and thefountains under her eyes, she looked towards Kensington. There aniridescent sky floated like a bubble among the autumn-tinted trees. Shewas then thinking of her music and her friends; she hardly knew of whatshe was thinking, when a thought so clear that it sounded like a bellspoke within her, and it said that the things of which she was thinkingwere as nothing, and that Life was but a little moment compared withEternity, and she seemed to see into the final time which lay beyond thegrave. "There and not here are the true realities," said the voice, andshe got up and walked hurriedly down the hillside, fearing lest thefierce conflict of conscience should begin again in her. She walked asfast as she was able, hoping to extinguish in action the consciencethat she dreaded, but she was weak and almost helpless, and had to pauseto rest. She stood, one hand on the balustrade, not daring to turn herhead lest she should see the spire of the Kensington Church.She walked across the gardens, through the great groves, and sat down.The grass was worn away about the roots of the trees and through thegnarled trunks she could see the keeper's cottage covered with reddenedcreeper. Perhaps it was the calm and seclusion that called her thoughtsto the convent garden, and she reflected that if she had not acceptedthe nuns' invitation to tea, her life might have continued withoutdeviation. She was impressed with the slightness of the thread on whichour destiny hangs, and then by the inevitableness of our lives. Weperceive the governing rule only when we look back. The present alwaysseems chaos, but when we look back, we distinguish the reason of everyaction, and we recognise the perfect fulfilment of what must be. Hervisit to the convent--how little it was when looked at from one side,when looked at from another how extraordinary! If she had known thatMonsignor was going to ask her to go there, she would have invented aplausible excuse, but she had had no time to think; his kind eyes werefixed upon her, and he seemed so ready to believe all she said, that hercourage sank within her, and she could not lie to him. Perhaps all thiswas by intention, by the very grace of God! The Virgin might haveinterceded on her behalf, for is it not said that whoever wears thescapular of Our Lady of Mount Carmel cannot lose his soul? But for thelast two years, for more than two years, she has not worn her scapular.The strings had broken, and they had not been mended. She had intendedto buy another, but had not been able to bring herself to do so, sohypocritical did it seem.It might be that these dreadful nights of insomnia had been sent so thatshe might have an opportunity of realising the wickedness of her life,and the risk she incurred of losing her immortal soul. She dare not haverecourse to the sleeping draught, and must endure perhaps anothersleepless night. If they had been sent, as she thought they were, for apurpose, she must not dare to hush, by artificial means, the sense Godhad awakened in her; to do so would be like flying in the face ofProvidence. She had never suffered from sleeplessness before, and couldnot think that this insomnia was accidental. No, she dare not haverecourse to sleeping draughts, at least not till she had been toconfession. If afterwards she did not get to sleep, it would bedifferent. The fear arose in her of taking too much, of dying in hersleep. If she were to awake in hell! And that evening, when Meratreminded her of the draught, she said it was to be left on the table,and that she would take it if she required it.The darkness could not hide the slim bottle corked with a slim blondcork, and so clear was the vision that she could read the label throughthe darkness. It was only partially gummed on the bottom, and she couldread the pale writing. "To be taken before bedtime." The temptationstruck through the darkness, sweet and dreamily seductive it entered herbrain. She was tempted as by a dark, dreamless river; hushed in anunconscious darkness she would be upon that river, floating through along, winding night towards a dim, very distant day. If she were todrink, darkness would sink upon her, and all this visible world, thecontinual sight of which she felt must end in lunacy, would pass fromher. So great was the temptation that she did not dare to get out of bedand put the bottle away--if she did she must drink it, so she lay quitestill, her face turned against the wall, trying to find courage in thethought that God had imposed the torture of these sleepless nights uponher in order that she might be saved from the eternal sleeplessness ofhell.Mistakes are made in the preparation of medicines, but if no mistake hadbeen made, a change in her health might unfit her for so large a dose,and if through either of these chances she were to die in her sleep,there was no question that she must awake in hell. She did not dare togo to the draught, but lay quite still, her head close against the wall,praying for darkness, crying for relief from this too fierce mentality;it seemed to be eating up the very substance of her brain.On the following evening she sat in her armchair watching the clock. Ithad struck eleven--that was the time for her going to bed, but the hourhad become a redoubtable one. Bedtime filled her with fear, and thethought of another sleepless night deprived her of all courage. She didnot dare to go upstairs. She sat in her armchair as if in terror of amortal enemy. She had hidden the bottle, but her maid had orderedanother. There were now two, sufficient to procure death, said herconscience, and since dinner the temptation to commit suicide had beengrowing in her brain; like a vulture perched upon a jag of mountainrock, she could see the temptation watching her. She tried not to see,but the thought grew blacker and larger--its beak was in her brain, andshe was drawn, as if by talons, tremblingly from her chair. She was soweak that she could hardly cross the room; but the thought of deathseemed to give her courage, and without it she thought she never wouldhave had the strength to get upstairs. The attraction was extraordinary,and her powerlessness to resist it was part of the fascination, and shelooked round the room like a victim looking for the knife. She could notsee the bottle on her dressing-table, and accepting this as a favourableomen, she undressed and lay down.After all, she might sleep without having recourse to death; but, lyingon the pillow, she could think of nothing but the slim bottle and theslim blond cork, and a thick white liquid, and the dark river intowhich she would sink, the winding darkness on which she would float, andshe had not strength to think whither it led. Her only thought was notto see this world any more; her only desire not to think of Ulick orOwen, and to be tortured no longer by doubt of what was right and whatwas wrong. She was aware that she was losing possession of herself-control, and would be soon drawn into the dreaded but much-desiredabyss; and in this delirium, produced by long insomnia, she began toconceive her suicide as an act of defiance against God, and she rejoicedin her hatred of God, who had afflicted her so cruelly--for it washatred that had come to her aid, and would enable her to secure a long,long sleep. "Out of the sight of this world"--she muttered the words asshe sought the chloral--"I'll sleep, I'll sleep, I must sleep. Sleep ordeath, one or the other, so long as I am out of the sight of thisworld." But in her frenzy of desire for sleep she overlooked the slimbottle with the slim blond cork. Yet it stood on the toilet-table amidother bottles, right under her eyes, but over and over again she passedit by, until, frightened at not finding it, she opened drawer afterdrawer, and rushed to her wardrobe thinking it might be there. Shesought for it, throwing her things about, and, not finding it anywhere,a cold sweat broke over her forehead. Another sleepless night and shemust go mad. If she did not find it, she must find another way out ofthis agony, and the thought of cutting her throat, or throwing herselfout of the window, flashed across her mind. "Sleep I must have--sleep,sleep, sleep!" she muttered, as with fearing fingers she emptied out thecontents of her little workbox, where odds and ends collected. It washer scapular that came up under her hand, and at the sight of it, allher mad revolt was hushed, and a calm settled upon her. "A miracle, amiracle," she murmured, "the Virgin has done this; she interceded forme;" and at the same moment, catching sight of the chloral right underher very eyes, she could no longer doubt the miraculous interposition ofthe Virgin. For how otherwise could that bottle have escaped her notice?She had looked at the very place where it stood many times, and had notseen it; she had moved the other bottles and she had not seen it. TheVirgin had taken it away--she was sure it was not there five minutesago--or else the Virgin had blinded her eyes to it. A miracle hadhappened; and in a quivering peace of mind and an intense joy of theheart, she mended the strings of her broken scapular. Then she hung itround her neck, and kneeling by the bedside, she said the prayers thatit enjoined; and when she got into bed she saw a light shining in onecorner of the room, and, sure that it was the Virgin who had come inperson to visit her, she continued her prayers till she fell asleep.CHAPTER THIRTY-ONEA knock came at her door, and Merat was glad to hear that Mademoisellehad slept. She noticed that the sleeping-draught had not been taken, andpicking up the various things that Evelyn had scattered in her search,she wondered at the disorder of the room, making Evelyn feeluncomfortable by her remarks. Evelyn knew it would be impossible forMerat to guess the cause of it all. But when she hesitated about whatdress she would wear, declaring against this one and that one, herchoice all the time being fixed on a black crepon, Merat glancedsuspiciously at her mistress; and when Evelyn put aside her rings,selecting in preference two which she did not usually wear, the maid wasconvinced that some disaster had happened, and was ready to concludethat Ulick Dean was the cause of these sleepless nights.Evelyn had chosen this dress because she was going to St. Joseph's orbecause she supposed she was going there. It did not seem to her thatshe could confess to anyone but Monsignor. But why he? one priest woulddo as well as another. She was too tired to think.Her brain was like one of those autumn days when clouds hang low, and adimness broods between sky and earth. True that there were the events oflast night--her search for the chloral, the finding of her scapular, herbelief in a special interposition of Providence, and then her resolutionto go to confession. It was all there; she knew it all, but did not wantto think about it. She had been thinking for a week, and this was thefirst respite she had had from thought, and she wished this stupor ofbrain to continue till four o'clock. That was the time she would have tobe at St. Joseph's. He was generally there at that time.She had lain down on the sofa after breakfast, hoping to sleep a little;if she didn't, the time would be very long; but as she dozed, she beganto see the thin, worn face and the piercing eyes, and the intonation ofhis voice began to ring in her ears. As she thought or as she dreamed,the striking of the clock reminded her of the number of hours thatseparated them. Only four hours and she would be kneeling at his feet!Then she felt that she had advanced a stage, and was appreciably nearerthe inevitable end, and lay staring at the sequence of events. She sawthe hours stretching out reaching to him, and she, all the while, wasmoving through the hours automatically. All kind of similes presentedthemselves to her mind. She asked herself how it was that Monsignor hadcome into her life. She had not sought him; she had not wanted him inher life, but he had come! She remembered the first time she sawhim--that Sunday morning when she went to St. Joseph's to meet herfather's choir--and could recall the exact appearance of the church ashe walked across the aisle to the pulpit. It was illuminated by a suddenray of sunlight falling through one of the eastern windows, and sheremembered how it had lighted up the thin, narrow face, bringing a glowof colour to the dark skin till it seemed like one of the carved saintsshe had seen in Romanesque churches on the Rhine. She remembered theshape of the small head, carried well back, and how she had beenimpressed by the slow stride with which he crossed the sanctuary. Thenher thoughts passed to the moment when, standing in the pulpit, he hadlooked out on the congregation, seeming to divine the presence of somegreat sinner there. She had felt that he was aware of her existence, forin that moment the thin grey eyes seemed to see her, even to think her,and they had frightened her, they were so clear, so set on somepurpose--God's or the Church's. She had met him that evening at aconcert, and how well she remembered her father introducing him! He hadspoken to her several minutes; everyone in the room was looking at them,and she recalled the scene--all the girls, their dresses, and theexpression of their eyes. But she could not recall what Monsignor hadsaid, only her impressions; the same strange fascination and fear whichshe had experienced when Owen came to the concerts long ago--that loudwinter's night, harsh and hard as iron. Owen had stood talking to hertoo, and she had been fascinated.... He had admired her singing, andMonsignor had admired her singing; but she was determined not to singuntil Monsignor had asked her to sing, and when he has asked her to goto the convent she had gone. It was very strange; she could not accountfor it. It was all beyond herself, outside of her, far away like thestars, and she felt now as she did whenever she looked at the stars. Washer character essentially weak, and was she liable to all theseinfluences, these facile assimilations? Was there nothing within her, noabiding principle, nothing that she could call her own? She walked upthe room, and tried to understand herself--what was she, bad or good,weak or strong? If she only knew what she was, then she would know howto act.There were her sins against faith. She had striven to undermine herbelief in God. She had read Darwin and Huxley for this purpose, and notin the least to obtain knowledge. As Monsignor has said, "When aCatholic loses his faith, it is because he desires to lead a looselife," and she hardly dared to look into her soul, knowing that shewould find confirmation of this opinion. She had not been to Mass,because at the Elevation she believed in spite of herself; so she hadbeen as insincere in her unfaith as in her faith. Then there were thesins of the flesh, and their number and their blackness terrified her.There were sins that she strove to put out of her mind at once, sins shewas even ashamed to think of; and the thought of confessing them struckher down, and once more it seemed that she could never raise herself outof the slough into which she had fallen. She had all along taken it forgranted that a general admission that she had lived with Owen as hiswife would be sufficient. But now it seemed to her that she would haveto tell Monsignor how gross her life had been.In a corner of the room her sins crowded, and covering her face with herhands, she was convinced that she could not go to confession.Before she went away with Owen she had had no sins to confess, or onlyvenial sins; that she had been late for Mass through her own fault; thatshe had omitted her evening prayers. Her worst sin was the reading of anovel which she thought she ought not to have read, but now her life wasall sin. If the priest questioned her she could not answer, she mustrefuse to answer. So there seemed no hope for her. She could not confesseverything, and the conviction suddenly possessed her that God haddeserted her, and she could not hope for redemption from her presentlife. For she could not confess all her sins; her heart would fail her,she would be tempted to conceal something, and then to her other sinsshe would add the sin of a bad confession.Nervous pains began again in her arms and neck, and she experienced thesame wasting away of the very substance of her being, of the protectingenvelope of the unconscious. She was again a mere mentality, and shelooked round the room with a frightened, distracted air. On the tablewas the book Monsignor had given her, _Sin and Its Consequences_. Butshe turned from it with a smile. She did not need anyone to tell herwhat were the consequences of sin--and the familiar proverb of bringingcoals to Newcastle rose up in her mind. At the same moment she caughtsight of the clock; it was half-past twelve, and she remembered that inabout three hours and a half it would be time to go to St. Joseph's.Then like a flash the question came, was it Monsignor's influence thathad induced this desire of a pure life in her? She could not deny toherself that she was attracted by his personality. So the question was,how far his personality accounted for the change that had come over herlife? Was it the mere personal influence of the prelate, or an inherentsense of right and wrong that compelled her to send her lovers away andchange her life? If it were the mere personal influence of Monsignor,her desire of a pure life would not last, and to attain something thatwas not natural to her she would have ruined her life to no purpose.Owen's influence had died in her; how did she know that Monsignor'swould continue even so long? She had lived an evil life for six years;would she lead a good one for the same time? If she knew this she wouldknow how to act. But not only for six years would she have to lead agood life, but till the very end of her life. If she did not perseveretill the very end, all this present struggle and the years ofself-denial which she was was about to enter on would be useless. Shemight just as well have had a good time all along. A good time! That wasjust it. She could not have a good time. She dare not face the agony,the agony which she was at present enduring, so she must go toconfession, she must have inward peace."So my life is over and done," she said, "and at seven-and-twenty!"She twisted in her fingers a letter which she had received that morningfrom Mademoiselle Helbrun. She was staying at the Savoy Hotel, and hadjust returned from Munich. Evelyn felt she would like to hear about hersuccess as Frika, and how So-and-So had sung Brunnhilde, and the rest ofthe little gossip about the profession. She would like to lunch withLouise in the restaurant, at a table by the window. She would like tosee the Thames, and hear things that she might never hear again. But wasit possible that she was never going to join again in the tumult of theValkyrie? She remembered her war gear, the white tunic with goldbreastplates. Was it possible that she would never cry their cry fromthe top of the rocks; and her favourite horse, the horse that Owen hadgiven her for the part, what would become of him? What would become ofher jewellery, of her house, of her fame, of everything? She attempted alast stand against her conscience. Her scruples were imaginary. Owen hadsaid it could not matter to God whether she kissed him or not. But shedid not pursue this train of reasoning. She felt it to be wrong. But shecould not confess--she could not explain everything, and again she wasstruck with a sort of mental paralysis. Why Monsignor--why not anotherpriest? No, not another. She could not say why, but not another; he wasthe one. But perhaps she only wanted to tell someone, a woman--Louise,for instance. If she were to tell Louise--she put the idea out of mind,feeling it to be vain, and trying to think that there was no need whyshe should leave the stage, and uncertain whether she should stay on thestage if Monsignor forbade her, or if she wanted to even if he allowedher, she put on her hat and went to lunch with Louise. It would help herto pass the time; it would save her from thinking. She must speak tosomeone. But the Savoy was on her way to St. Joseph's. It was half-waythere. A little overcome by the coincidence, she told her servant tocall a hansom, and as she drove to the hotel she wondered why she hadthought of going to see Louise.She met her in the courtyard, and the vivacious little woman cried, "Mydear, how glad I am to see you!" and she stretched out both hands.Evelyn was more pleased to see her friend than she expected to be, andwhile listening to her she envied her for being so happy, and shewondered why she was so happy; and while asking herself these questionsshe noticed her dress. Mademoiselle Helbrun's plump figure was set offto full advantage in a black and white check silk dress, and she wore awonderful arched hat with flowing plumes of the bird of paradise. Shewas a prima-donna every inch of her, standing on the steps of her hotel,whereas the operatic stage could hardly be distinguished at all inEvelyn's dress. With the black crepon skirt she wore a heliotropeblouse, and she stood, one foot showing beyond the skirt, in astatue-like attitude, her pale parasol held negligently over oneshoulder."My dear," she said, "I have come to ask you to let me lunch with you.""But I shall be enchanted, my dear. I wrote on the chance, neverthinking that you would be in town this season.""Yes, it is strange. I don't know why I am here. There's no one intown.""Where would you like to lunch? In my room or in the restaurant?""It will be gayer in the restaurant. I haven't seen a soul for nearly aweek.""My dear!"Louise gave her a sharp look, in which the passing thought that Evelynmight be in want of money was dismissed as ridiculous. Louise thought ofsome unhappy love affair, and when they sat down to lunch she noticedthat Evelyn avoided answering a question regarding herself, and turnedthe conversation on to the Munich performance. The evident desire ofEvelyn not to talk about herself clouded Louise's pleasure in talking ofherself, and she paused in her account of the Wotan, the Brunnhilde, theconductor and the Rhine Maidens to tell Evelyn of the inquiries that hadbeen made about her--all were looking forward to her Kundry next year.Madame Wagner had said that there never had been such a Brunnhilde."I daresay she said so, but at the bottom of her heart she did not likemy Brunnhilde. It was against her ideas. She always thought I was toomuch woman. She said that I forgot that I was a Goddess. And she wasright. I never could remember the Goddess. I never remember anything onthe stage. 'Tisn't my way. I simply live it all out. I was enthusiasticwhen Siegfried came to release me, because I should have beenenthusiastic about him." Evelyn's thoughts went back to Owen, and sheremembered how he had released her from the bondage of music lessonswith a kiss."But when I came to tell you about the ruined Valhala and the poorfallen Gods you were sorry?""Yes, I was sorry for father.""The All-Father?"Evelyn laughed."No, my own father. That's my way. I think of what has happened to meand I act that. But tell me about the Munich performances."While Mademoiselle Helbrun told of the different points in which theyexcelled, Evelyn thought and thought of the strange charm of the womanwho had so ably continued the Master's work. She recalled the tall,bending figure, she saw the alley of clipped limes, she remembered thespacious rooms, and then his study, the walls lined with bookcases,books of legends and philosophical works, the room in which he hadwritten "The Dusk of the Gods" and "Parsifal." Thinking of the studiousmonths she had spent in that house, a vivid memory of one night shotacross her brain. It was a heavy, breathless night, without star ormoon. She had wandered into the dark garden; she had found her way tothe grave, and standing by the Master's side she had listened to themusic and seen the guests passing across the lighted windows. The warbleof the fountain had seemed to her like the pulse of Eternity. All thatwas three years ago. "It is very wonderful, very wonderful," shethought, and she awoke with a start, and Mademoiselle Helbrun saw shehad not been listening. She answered Louise's subsequent remarks, andwas glad that what had been had been. She was giving it all up, it wastrue, but it was not as if she had not known life.The sun was shining on the great brown river, and out of thesmoke-dimmed sky white creamy clouds were faintly rising. Evelyn's eyeshad wandered out there, and she seemed to see a thin face and hard, coldeyes, and she asked Louise abruptly what the time was, for she hadforgotten her watch. It was only just three o'clock. She returned to theMunich performances, but Louise could see that Evelyn was all the timestruggling against an overmastering fate. The only thing she could thinkof was that Evelyn was being forced into a marriage or an elopementagainst her will. Once or twice she thought that Evelyn was going toconfide in her. She waited, afraid to say a word lest she should checkthe confidences that her friend seemed tempted to entrust her with.Evelyn's eyes were dull and lifeless. Louise could see that they did notsee her, and it was with an effort that Evelyn said, "I am sorry I didnot see your Frika;" and once started she rattled on for some time,hardly knowing what she was saying, arguing about the music andexpressing opinions about everything and everybody. Stopping abruptly,she again asked her friend what time it was. Louise said that she mustnot go, and then tried to induce her to come for a drive with her; butEvelyn shook her head--she was engaged. There was no trace of colour inher face, and when Louise asked when they should meet again, she saidshe did not know, but she hoped very soon. She might be obliged to go toParis to-morrow, and she had to pay some visits to Scotland at the endof the month. Louise did not like to question her, for she was sure thatsome momentous event was about to happen. As she drove away Louise said,"I should not be surprised if she did not play Kundry next year."While wondering at the grotesque movement of the trotting horse, Evelyntried once more to save herself from this visit to St. Joseph's. Shethought of what it would cost her--her present life! Her lovers weregone already, and Monsignor would tell her that she must give up thestage. But these considerations did not alter the fact that she wasgoing to St. Joseph's. She was rolling thither, like a stone down ahill. She saw the streets and people as she passed them, as a stonemight if it had eyes. All power of will had been taken from her; it wasthe same as when she went to meet Owen at Berkeley Square, and in astrange lucidity of mind, she asked herself if it were not true that weare never more than mere machines set in motion by a master hand,predestined to certain courses, purblind creatures who do not perceivetheir own helplessness, except in rare moments of heightenedconsciousness. As if to convince herself on this point, she strove toraise her hand to open the trap in the roof of the hansom, and her fearincreased on finding that she could not. To acquire the necessarystrength, she reminded herself that she was wrecking her whole life foran idea, for, perhaps, nothing more than a desire to confess her sins.Again she tried to raise her hand, and she looked round, feeling thatnothing short of some extraordinary accident could save her, nothingexcept an accident to the horse or carriage could save her artisticlife. Some material accident, nothing else.... Monsignor might not be atSt. Joseph's. Perhaps he had left town. Nobody stayed in town inSeptember, and for a moment it seemed hardly worth while to continue herdrive. Her thoughts came to a standstill, and, as in a nervous vision,Evelyn saw that the whole of her future life depended on her seeingMonsignor that day. She foresaw that if she were turned away from thedoor of St. Joseph's, she would never come back; never would she be ableto bring herself to the point again. She would find Owen waiting forher; wherever she went, she would meet him; sooner or later thetemptation to return to him would overcome her. Then, indeed, she wouldbe lost; then, indeed, her tragedy would begin.... Ah! if she could onlycease to think for a little while; only for a little while. She hadtried to escape from him once before, and had not succeeded becausethere was no one to help her. Now there was Monsignor. The reflectioncheered her, and a few minutes were left to discover how much of herconversion was owing to her original nature, and how much to Monsignor'sinfluence. It seemed to her that if she were certain of this point, shewould know whether she should go forward or back. But her heart gaveback no answer, and she grew more helpless, and terrified, like a birdfallen into the fascination of a serpent. She was uncertain if she couldlead a good life. She no longer desired anything. She was conscious ofno sensation, except that she was rolling independent of her own will,like a stone. A moment after, the gable of the church appeared againstthe sky, and she recognised the poor, ridiculous creature in thetattered black bonnet, whose stiff, crooked appearance she had knownsince childhood. She had changed little in the last twenty years. Shewalked with the same sidling gait her hands crossed in front of her likea doll. Her life had been lived about St. Joseph's; the church hadalways been the theatre and centre of her thoughts. Doubtless she was onher way to Benediction, and the temptation to follow her arose, but waseasily resisted. Evelyn paid the cabman his fare, and in an increasingtremor of nervous agitation, she crossed the gravelled space in front ofthe presbytery. The attendant showed her into the same bare room, wherethere was nothing to distract her thoughts from herself except the fourprints on the walls. She had recourse to them in the hope of stimulatingher religious fervour, but as she gazed at St. Monica and St. Augustineshe remembered the poor woman she had just seen. There had been scorn ofher ridiculous appearance in her heart, and pride that she, Evelyn, hadbeen given a more beautiful body, more perfect health, and a clearerintelligence. So she was overcome with shame. How dare she have scornedthis holy woman. If she had been more richly gifted by Nature, to whatshameful usage had she put her body and her talents? And Evelyn thoughthow much more lovely in God's eyes was this poor deformed woman. To sinis the common lot of humanity; but she had done more than commit sins,she had committed _the_ sin, she had striven to tear out of her heartthat sense of right and wrong which God had planted there. She haddenied the ideal as the Jews had denied Christ. Owen had not done that;he lived up to his principles, such as they were. But she had notthought she was acting right, she had always known that she was doingwrong, and she had gone on doing wrong, stifling her conscience, hopingalways that it would be the last time.That poor woman whose appearance had raised a contemptuous thought inher heart had never sinned against her faith. She had not sought toraise doubts in her heart concerning God and morals; she had lived inardent belief and love, never doubting that God watched her from hisheaven, whither he would call her in good time. Almighty God! She wasstruck with fear lest she did not believe all that this poor womanbelieved. Did she believe that she, Evelyn Innes, would appear at thefinal judgment and be assigned a place for ever and ever in eithereternal bliss or torment? She did not know if she believed this. Lastnight she was sure she believed, but to-day she did not know.... She didnot know that heaven was as this poor woman imagined it. She askedherself if she believed in a future life of any sort? She was not sure,she did not know; she was only sure that whether there be a future lifeor none, our obligation to live according to the dictates of ourconscience remains the same. But Monsignor might not deem thissufficient, and might refuse her absolution. She strove to convinceherself, hurriedly, aware that the moments were fleeting, that she had asoul. That sense of right and wrong which, like a whip, had driven herhere could be nothing else but the voice of her soul; therefore therewas a soul, and if there was a soul it could not die, and if it did notdie it must go somewhere; therefore there was a heaven and a hell. Butin spite of her desire to convince herself, remembrance of Owen'sarguments whistled like a wind through her pious exhortations, and allthat she had read in Huxley and Darwin and Spencer; the very words cameback thick and distinct, and like one who finds progress impossible inthe face of the gale, she stopped thinking. "We know nothing ... we knownothing," were the words she heard in the shriek of the wind, andrevealed religion appeared in tattered, miserable plight, a forlornspectre borne away on the wind. So distinct was the vision, so explicither hearing, that she could not pretend to herself that she was aChristian in any but a moral sense, and this would not satisfyMonsignor. Then question after question pealed in her ears. What shouldshe say when he came? Was it not better for her to leave at once? Butthen? She took one step towards the door. However thin and shallow herbelief might be, she must confess her sins. She felt that she mustconfess her sins even if she did not believe in confession. Her thoughtspaused, and she was terrified by the mystery which her own existencepresented to herself.The door opened, and the priest stood looking at her. She could see thathe divined the truth. In the first glance he read that Evelyn had cometo confession, and it was for him a moment of extraordinary spiritualelation.Monsignor Mostyn and Sir Owen had been at school together, and thoughthey had not met since, they frequently heard of each other. Owen'sideas of marriage and religion were well known to the priest. He hadheard soon after she had gone away that she had gone with Asher, his oldschoolfellow. He knew the pride that Asher would take in destroying herfaith, and this diabolic project he had determined to frustrate; andevery year when he returned from Rome, he asked if Evelyn was expectedto sing in London that season. As year after year went by, his chance ofsaving her soul seemed to grow more remote; but at the bottom of hisheart he believed that he was the chosen instrument of God's grace. Thatnight at the concert in her father's house, the first words--somethingin her manner, the expression in her eyes, had led him to think that theconversion would be an easy one. But it had come about quicker than hehad expected. And as he stood looking at her, he was aware of an alloyof personal vanity and strove to stifle it; he thought of himself as thehumble instrument selected to win her from this infamous, this renegadeCatholic, and the trouble so visible in her was confirmation of hisbelief that there can be no peace for a Catholic outside the pale of theChurch."I have wanted to see you so much," she began hurriedly. "There is agreat deal I want to tell you. But perhaps you have no time now.""My dear child, I have ample time, I am only too pleased to be ofservice to you. I am afraid you are in trouble, you look quite ill."The kindness of the voice filled her eyes with tears, and she understoodin a moment the relief it would be to tell her troubles to this kindfriend; to feel his kind advice allaying them one by one, and to knowthat the sleepless solitude in which she had tried to grapple with themwas over at last. To give her time to recover herself, Monsignor spokeof a letter he had received that morning from the Superior of thePassionist Convent."I will not trouble you with her repeated thanks for what you have donefor her. She begs me to tell you that she and the sisters unite ininviting you to spend a few days with them. They suggest that you shouldchoose your own time.""Oh, Monsignor, how can I go and stay with them! I thought I should havedied of shame when I went there after the concert with you. MotherPhilippa asked me if I had travelled with my father when I went abroad.You must remember, for you came to my assistance.""I turned the conversation, seeing that it embarrassed you.""But you must have guessed.""On account of your father's position at St. Joseph's, I had heard ofyou.... I had heard of your intimacy with Sir Owen Asher, and the lifeof an opera singer is not one to which a good Catholic can easilyreconcile herself."As they sat on either side of the table, Evelyn was attracted, and thenabsorbed, by the distinctive appearance of the priest. His mind was inhis face. The long, high forehead, with black hair growing sparely uponit; the small, brilliant eyes, and the long, firm line of the jaw, nowdistinct, for the head was turned almost in profile. The face was aperfect symbol of the mind behind it; and the intimate concurrence ofthe appearance and the thought was the reason of its attractiveness. Itwas the beauty of unity; here was a man whose ideas are so deeply rootedthat they express themselves in his flesh. In him there was nothingfloating or undecided; and in the line of the thin, small mouth and thesquare nostrils, Evelyn divined a perfect certainty on all points. Inthis way she was attracted to his spiritual guidance, and desired thesupport of his knowledge, as she had desired Ulick's knowledge when shewas studying Isolde. Ulick's technical knowledge had been useful to her;upon it she had raised herself, through it she had attained her idea.And in the same way Monsignor's knowledge on all points of doctrinewould free her from doubt. Then she would be able to rise above thedegradation of earthly passion to that purer and higher passion, thelove of God. Doctrine she did not love for its own sake as Monsignorloved it. She regarded it as the musician regards crotchets and quavers,as a means of expression; and she now felt that without doctrine shecould not acquire the love which she desired; without doctrine she couldnot free herself from the bondage of the flesh, and every moment thetemptation to give her soul into his keeping grew more irresistible.Rising from her chair, she said--"Will you hear my confession now, Monsignor?""The priest looked at her, his narrow, hard face concentrated in anardent scrutiny."Certainly, my child, if you think you are sufficiently prepared.""I must confess now; I could not put it off again;" and glancing roundthe room, she slipped suddenly upon her knees.The priest put on his stole and murmured a Latin prayer, making the signof the Cross over the head of his penitent."I fear I shall never remember all my sins. I have been living in mortalsin so many years.""I remember that you spoke to me of intellectualdifficulties--concerning faith. You see now, my dear child, that youwere deceiving yourself. Your real difficulties were quite different.""I think that my doubts were sincere," Evelyn replied tremblingly, forshe felt that Monsignor expected her to agree with him."If your doubts were sincere, what has removed them? What has convincedyou of the existence of a future life? That, I believe, was one of yourchief difficulties. Have you examined the evidence?"Evelyn murmured that that sense of right and wrong which she had neverbeen able to drive out of her heart implied the existence of God."But savages, to whom the Scriptures are unknown, have a sense of rightand wrong. Those who lived before the birth of Christ--the Greeks andRomans--had a sense of right and wrong."Knowing that the priest's absolution depended upon her acceptance of thedoctrine of a future life, she strove to believe as a little child. Butit was her sins of the flesh that she wanted to confess, and thisargument about the Incarnation had begun to seem out of place. Suddenlyit seemed to hear inexpressibly ludicrous that she should be kneelingbeside the priest. She could not help wondering what Owen would think ofher. She remembered his pointing out that it is stated in the Gospelthat the Messiah should be descended from David. Now, Mary was not ofroyal blood, so it was through Joseph, who was not his father, thatChrist was descended from David. But these discrepancies did not matter.She felt the Church to be necessary to her, and that its teachingcoincided with her deepest feeling seemed to her enough. But Monsignorwas insistent, and he pressed dogma after dogma upon her. All the whilethe cocoa-nut matting ate into her knees, and she was perplexed byremembrances of sexual abandonments. How to speak of them she did notknow, and she was haunted and terrified by the idea of concealinganything which would invalidate her confession. So she hastily availedherself of the first pause to tell him that she had lived with OwenAsher for the last six years. The priest did not trouble to inquirefurther, and she felt that she could not leave him under the impressionthat she had lived with Owen the moderate, sexual life which shebelieved was maintained between husband and wife."My life during the last six years," she said, interrupting him, "hasbeen so abandoned. There are few--there are no excesses of which I havenot been guilty.""You have said enough on that point," he answered, to her great relief.But at that moment she remembered Ulick, and she felt that she mustmention him. To do so she had again to interrupt the priest."But I must tell you--Sir Owen was not the only one"--she bowed herhead--"there was another." Then, yielding to the temptation to explainherself, she told Monsignor how it was this second sin that had awakenedher conscience. She had tried to look upon Sir Owen as her husband. "Butone night at the theatre, during a performance of 'Tristan and Isolde,'I sinned with this second man.""And this showed you, my dear child, the impossibility of a moral lifefor one who was born a Catholic except when protected by the doctrineand the sacraments of our Holy Church. And that brings us back to thepoint from which we started--the necessity of an unquestioningacceptance of the entire doctrine, and, I may add, a generalacquiescence in Catholic belief. It seems strange to you that I am moreanxious about your sins against faith than your sins of the flesh. Itis because I know that without faith you will fall again. It is becauseI know the danger, the seduction of the theory that even if there beneither hell nor heaven, yet the obligation to lead a moral life exists.Such theory is in essence Protestantism and a delicious flattery of thevanity of human nature. It has been the cause of the loss of millions ofsouls. You yourself are a living testimony of the untrustworthiness ofthis shelter, and it is entirely contrary to the spirit of the teachingof the Church, which is that we must lead a moral life in order to gainheaven and avoid the pain of hell."She leaned heavily on the table to relieve her knees from as much weightas possible, and she thought of the possibility of getting herhandkerchief out of her pocket and placing it under her. But when herconfession turned from her sins against faith to her sins of the flesh,she forgot the pain of her knees."There is one more question I must ask you. You have lived with this manas his mistress for six years, you have spoken of the excesses to whichyou abandoned yourself, but more important than these is whether youdeliberately avoided the probable consequences of your sin--I mean inregard to children?""If we sin we must needs avoid the consequences of our sin. I know thatit is forbidden--but my profession--I had to think of others--myfather--""Your answer, my dear child, does not surprise me. It shows me into whatdepths you have fallen. That you should think like this is part of theteaching of the man whose object was to undermine your faith; it is partof the teaching of Darwin and Huxley and Spencer. You were persuadedthat to live with a man to whom you were not married differed in no wisefrom living with your husband. The result has proved how false is suchteaching. The sacrament of marriage was instituted to save the weak fromthe danger of temptation, and human nature is essentially weak, andwithout the protection of the Church it falls. The doctrine of theChurch is our only safeguard. But that you should have proved unfaithfulto this man--this second sin which shocked you so much, and which I amthankful awakened in you a sense of sin, is not more important than tothwart the design of Nature. It is important that you should understandthis, for an understanding on this point will show you how false, howcontradictory, is the teaching of the naturalistic philosophy in whichyou placed your trust. These men put aside revealed religion and refereverything to Nature, but they do not hesitate to oppose the designs ofNature when it suits their purpose. The doctrine of the Church hasalways been one wife, one husband. Polygamy and polyandry are relativelysterile. It is the acknowledged wife and the acknowledged husband thatare fruitful; it is the husband and wife who furnish the world with menand heaven with souls, whereas the lover and the mistress fulfil nopurpose, they merely encumber the world with their vice, they areuseless to Nature, and are hateful in God's sight; the nations that donot cast them out soon become decrepid. If we go to the root of things,we find that the law of the Church coincides very closely with the lawof Nature, and that the so-called natural sciences are but a nineteenthcentury figment. I hope all this is quite clear to you?"Evelyn acquiesced. Her natural instinct forbade her the originalsin--what happened after did not appeal to her; she could feel nointerest in the question he had raised. But she was determined to avoidall falsehood--on that question her instinct was again explicit--andwhen he returned again in his irritation at her insubordination to hisideas, and questioned her regarding her belief as to a future life, heranswer was so doubtful that after a moment's hesitation he said--"If you are not convinced on so cardinal a point of dogma, it isimpossible for me to give you absolution.""Do not deny me your absolution. I cannot face my life without some signof forgiveness. I believe--I think I believe. You probe too deeply.Sometimes it seems to me that there must be a future life, sometimes itseems to me--that it would be too terrible if we were to live again.""It would be too terrible indeed, my dear child, if we were to liveagain unassoiled, unpurified, in all our miserable imperfections. Butthese have been removed by the priest's absolution, by the sinner'srepentance in this world and by purgatory in the next. Those who havethe happiness to live in the sight of God are without stain.""I only know that I must lead a moral life, and that religion will helpme to do so. I try to speak the truth, but the truth shifts and veers,and in trying to tell the whole truth perhaps I leave an impression thatI believe less than I do. You must make allowance for my ignorance andincapacity. I cannot find words as you do to express myself. Do notrefuse me absolution, for without it I shall not have strength topersevere.... I fear what may become of me. If you knew the effort ithas cost me to come to you. I have not slept for many nights forthinking of my sins.""There is one promise you must make me before I give you absolution; youmust not seek either of these men again who have been to you a cause ofsin."The pain from her knees was expressed in her voice, and it was almostwith a cry that she answered--"But I have promised to sing his opera.""I thought, my dear child, that you told me you intended to give up thestage. I feel bound to tell you that I do not see how you are to remainon the stage if you wish to lead a new life""I have been kneeling a long while," and a cry escaped her, so acute wasthe pain. She struggled to her feet and stood leaning against the table,waiting for the pain to die out of her limbs. "The other man is father'sfriend. If I tell him or if I write to him that he may not come to thehouse, father will suspect. Then I have promised to sing his opera. Oh,Monsignor--""These difficulties," said Monsignor, as he rose from his chair, "appearto you very serious. You are overcome by their importance because youhave not adequately realised the awfulness of your state in the sight ofGod. If you were to die now, your soul would be lost. Once you havegrasped this central fact in its full significance, the rest will seemeasy. I will lend you a book which I think will help you.""But, Monsignor, are you going to refuse me your absolution?""My dear child, you are in doubt regarding the essential doctrine of theresurrection, and you are unable to promise me not to see one of the menwho have been to you a cause of sin."Her clear, nervous vision met the dry, narrow vision that was thepriest, and there was a pause in the conflict of their wills. He sawthat his penitent was moved to the depth of her being, and had lostcontrol of herself. He feared to send her away without absolution, yethe felt that she must be forced into submission--she must accept theentire doctrine of the Church. He could not understand, and thereforecould not sympathise with her hesitation on points of doctrine. If thepenitent accepted the Church as the true Church, conscience was laidaside for doctrine. The value of the Church was that it relieved theindividual of the responsibility of life. So it was by an effort of willthat he retained his patience. He was determined to reduce her to hismind, but he was instinctively aware of the danger of refusing herabsolution; to do so might fling her back upon agnosticism. He wascontending with vast passions. An unexpected wave might carry her beyondhis reach. The stakes were high; he was playing for her soul with OwenAsher. He had decided to yield a point if necessary, but his voice wasso kind, so irresistibly kind, that she heard nothing but it. Howevershe might think when she had left him, she could not withstand thekindness of that voice; it seemed to enter into her life like someextraordinary music or perfume. He could see the effect he was producingon her; he watched her eyes growing bright until a slight dread crossedhis mind. She seemed like one fascinated, trembling in bonds that wereloosening, and that in the next moment would break, leaving herfree--perhaps to throw herself into his arms; he did not dare towithdraw his eyes. An awful moment passed, and she turned slowly as ifto leave the room. But at the moment of so doing a light seemed to breakupon her brain; where there was darkness there was light. He saw herwalk suddenly forward. She threw herself upon her knees at the table,and like one to whom speech had suddenly come back, she said--"I believe in our holy Church and all that she teaches. Father, Ibeseech you to absolve me from my sins."So striking was the change that the priest himself was cowed by it, andhis personal pride in his conquest of her soul was drowned in a greatawe. He had first to thank God for having chosen him as the instrumentof his will, and then he spoke to Evelyn of the wonder and magnitude ofGod's mercies. That at the very height of her artistic career he shouldhave roused her to a sense of her own exceeding sinfulness was a miracleof his grace.His presence by her at that moment was a balm. She heard him say thatlife would not be an easy one, but that she must not be discouraged,that she must remember that she had made her peace with God, and wouldderive strength from his sacraments. An extraordinary sweetness cameover her, she seemed borne away upon a delicious sweetness; she wasconscious of an extraordinary inward presence. She did not dare to lookup, or even to think, but buried herself in prayer, experiencing all thewhile the most wonderful and continuous sensation of delight. She hadbeen racked and torn, and had fallen at his feet a helpless mass ofsuffering humanity. He had healed her, and she felt hope and lifereturning to her again, and sufficient strength to get up and continueher way. Never again would she be alone; he would be always near toguide her. She heard him tell her that she must recite daily for penancethe hymn _veni sanctus spiritus_, and the thought of this obedience tohim refreshed her as the first draught of spring water refreshes thewanderer who for weeks has hesitated between the tortures of thirst andthe foul water of brackish desert pools. She was conscious that he wasmaking the sign of the cross over her bowed head, the murmured Latinformula sounded strangely familiar and delicious in her ears, with themore clearly enunciated "_Ego te absolvo_" towards the close. In thatsupreme moment for which she had longed, the last traces of Owen'sagnostic teaching seemed to fall from her, and she was carried back tothe days of her girlhood, to the days of her old prayer-book, a "Gardenof the Soul" bound in ivory; and she rose from her knees, weak, buthappy as a convalescent."I hope you will sleep well to-night," said Monsignor, kindly, noticingthe signs of physical exhaustion in Evelyn as she stood mechanicallydrawing down her veil and putting on her gloves. "A good conscience isthe best of all narcotics." Evelyn smiled through her tears, but couldnot trust herself to speak. "But I don't really like you living alone inPark Lane. It is too great a strain on your nerves. Could you not go toyour father's for a time?""Yes, perhaps, I don't know. Dear father would like to have me."He told her that the Mass he was to say to-morrow he would offer up forher; and as she drove home her joy grew more intense, and in a sort ofspiritual intoxication she identified herself with the faith of herchildhood. Life again presented possibilities of infinite perfection,and she was astonished that the difficulties which she had thoughtinsuperable had been so easily overcome.All that evening she thought of God and his sacraments, and rememberingthe moment when his grace had descended upon her and all had becomeclear, she perforce believed in a miracle--a miracle of grace hadcertainly happened.She looked forward to the moment when her maid would leave the room, andshe would throw herself on her knees and lose herself in prayer, as shehad lost herself when she knelt beside Monsignor, and he absolved herfrom sin. But when the door closed she was incapable of prayer, she onlydesired sleep. Her whole mind seemed to have veered. She had exaggeratedeverything, conducted herself strangely, hysterically, and her prayerswere repeated without ardour, almost indifferently.CHAPTER THIRTY-TWOBut the next day she could not account to herself for the extraordinaryrelief she had derived from her confession. For years she had battledwith life alone, with no light to guide her, blown hither and thither bythe gusts of her own emotions. But now she was at peace, she wasreconciled to the Church; she would never be alone again. The struggleof her life still lay before her, and yet in a sense it was a thing ofthe past. She felt like a ship that has passed from the roar of the surfinto the shelter of the embaying land, and in the distance stretched thelong peacefulness of the winding harbour.The solution of her monetary obligations to Sir Owen still perplexedher. She regretted not having laid the matter before Monsignor, andlooked forward to doing so. She could hear his clear, explicit voicetelling her what she must do, and guidance was such a sweet thing. Hewould say that to try to calculate hotel bills and railway fares was outof the question; but if she had said that the money Sir Owen hadadvanced her to pay Madame Savelli was to be considered as a debt, shemust offer to return it. She knew that Owen would not accept it. Itwould be horrid of him if he did, but it would be still more horrid ofher if she did not offer to return it.She had not really begun to make money till the last few years, and asthere had been no need for her to make money, she had sacrificed moneyto her pleasure and to Owen's. She had refused profitable engagementsbecause Owen wanted her to go yachting, or because he wanted to go toRiversdale to hunt, or because she did not like the conductor. So ithappened that she had very little money--about five thousand pounds, andher jewellery would fetch about half what was paid for it.If she were to remain on the stage another year she could perhaps treblethe amount, and to leave the stage she would have to provide herselfwith an adequate income. There was the tiara which the subscribers tothe opera in New York had presented her with--that would fetch a gooddeal. It didn't become her, but it recalled a time of her life that wasvery dear to her, and she would be sorry to part with it. But from thepoint of view of ornament, she liked better the band of diamonds whicha young Russian prince had sent to her anonymously. A few nights after,she had been introduced to him at a ball. His eyes went at once to thediamonds, a look of rapture had come into his face, and she had at oncesuspected he was the sender. They had danced many times, and retired forlong, eager talks into distant corners. And the following evening shehad found him waiting for her at the stage door. He had begged her tomeet him in a park outside the city. He was attractive, young, and shewas alone. Owen was away. She had thought that she liked him, and it wasexciting to meet him in this distant park, their carriages waiting forthem below the hill. She could still see the grey, lowering sky and thetrees hanging in green masses; she had thought all the time it was goingto rain. She remembered his pale, interesting face and his eager,insinuating voice. But he had had to leave St. Petersburg the next day.It was one of those things that might have, but had not, happened. Howstrange! She might have liked him. How strange; she never would see him.And she sat dreaming a long while.Owen had given her a clasp, composed of two large emerald bosses setwith curious antique gems, when she played Brunnhilde. The necklace ofgem intaglios, in gold Etruscan filigree settings, he had given her forher Elsa--more than her Elsa was worth. For Elizabeth he had given herropes of equal-sized pearls, and the lustre of the surfaces wasconsidered extraordinary. For Isolde he had given her strings of blackpearls which the jewellers of Europe had been collecting for more than ayear. Every pearl had the same depth of colour, and hanging from it wasa large black brilliant set in a mass of white brilliants. He had hungit round her neck as she went on the stage, and she had had only time toclasp his hands and say "dearest." These presents alone, she thought,could not be worth less than ten thousand pounds.She kept her jewels in a small iron safe; it stood in her dressing-roomunder her washhand stand, and Merat surprised her two hours latersitting on her bed, with everything, down to the rings which she woredaily, spread over the counterpane. The maid gave her mistress a sharplook, remarking that she hoped Mademoiselle did not miss anything. Inher hand there was a brooch consisting of three large emeralds set withdiamonds; she often wore it at the front of her dress, it wentparticularly well with a flowered silk which Owen always admired. Shecalculated the price it would fetch, and at the same time was convincedthat Monsignor's permission to sing on the concert platform, andpossibly to go to Bayreuth to sing Kundry, would not affect herdecision. She wanted to leave the stage. Half-measures did not appeal toher in the least. If she was to give up the stage, she must give it upwholly. It must be a thing over and done with, or she must remain onthe stage and sing for the good of Art and her lovers. Since that was nolonger possible, she preferred never to sing a note again in public. Theworst wrench of all was her promise to Monsignor not to sing Grania, andsince she had made that sacrifice, she could not dally with lesserthings. Then, resuming her search among her jewellery, she selected thefew things she would like to keep. She examined a cameo brooch set infiligree gold, ornamented with old rose diamonds, and she picked up astrange ring which a man whom Owen knew had taken from the finger of amummy. It was a large emerald set in plain gold. A man who had beenpresent at the unswathing of this princess, dead at least three thousandyears, had managed to secure it, and Owen had paid him a large sum forit. She put it on her finger, and decided to keep a dozen other rings,the earrings she wore, and a few bracelets. The rest of her jewelleryshe would sell, if Owen refused to have them back. Of course there wouldbe her teaching; she could not live in Dulwich doing nothing, and wouldtake up her mother's singing classes....Her mother had lost her voice in the middle of her career, and herdaughter had abandoned the stage at the moment of her greatest triumph!Looking at her jewels scattered all over the bed, Evelyn wondered whatwas going to happen to her. Was she really going to leave the stage?She--Evelyn Innes? When she thought of it, it seemed impossible. Ifreligion were only a craze. If she were to go back to Owen, or to otherlovers? How strange it was; it seemed strange to be herself, and yet itwas quite true. Remembering that on Sunday she would partake of the Bodyand Blood which her Saviour had given for the salvation of sinners, hersoul suddenly hushed, and catching sight of the jewels which symbolisedthe sacrifice she was making, it seemed to her that she could affordmuch greater sacrifices for what she was going to receive....She saw lights dying down in the distance, and the world which had onceseemed so desirable seemed to her strangely trivial and easily denied.Already she could look back at the poor struggling ones, struggling forwhat to-morrow will be abandoned, forgotten, passing illusions; and shewondered how it was that she had not always thought as she thoughtto-day. Her thoughts passed into reveries, and she awoke, rememberingthat Monsignor had told her that he did not like her living alone inPark Lane. But in Dulwich she would be with her father, whom she hadlong neglected, and she would be near St. Joseph's and her confessor. Atthe same moment she remembered that she could not write to her loversfrom Park Lane. She put her jewels back in the safe, and told Merat topack sufficient things for a month, and to follow her with them toDulwich. Merat asked for more precise instruction, but Evelyn said shemust use her good sense; she was going away at once, and Merat mustfollow by a later train."Then Mademoiselle does not want the carriage?""No, I shall go by train."       *       *       *       *       *She found her father in the workroom, and the sight of him in his capand apron mending an old musical instrument caused many home scenes toflash across her mind, and she did not know whether it was fromcuriosity or a desire to please him that she asked the name of thestrange little instrument he was repairing. It looked like an overgrownconcertina, and he explained that it was a tiny virginal, and pointedout the date; it was made in 1631, in Roman notation."Father," she said, "I have come back to you; we shall never beseparated any more--if you'll have me back.""Have you back, dear! What has happened now?"He stood with a chisel in his hand, and she noticed that he dug thepoint nervously into the soft deal plank. She sat down on a small woodenstool, and kicking the shavings with her feet, she said--"Father, a great deal has happened. I have sent Owen away ... I shallnever see him again; I'm sorry to have to speak about him to you; youmustn't be angry; he was very good to me, and he asked me to marry him;he did everything--I'm afraid I've broken his heart.""You're very strange, Evelyn, and I don't know what answer to make toyou.... Why did you send him away, and why did you refuse to marry him?""I sent him away because I thought it wrong to live with him, and Irefused to marry him--well, I don't know, father, I don't know why Irefused to marry him. It seemed to me that if he had wished to marry mehe ought to have done so long ago.""Is that the only reason you can give?""It is the only reason I know. You seem sorry for him, father, are you?I hope you are. He has been very good to me. I've often wished to tellyou; it has often been in my heart to tell you that you should not hatehim. He was very good to me, no one could have been kinder; he was veryfond of me, you must not bear him any ill will.""I never said that I bore him ill will. He made you a great singer, andyou say he was very kind to you and wanted to marry you.""Yes, and he was most anxious to see you, and he went with me to St.Joseph's the Sunday you gave the great Mass of Pope Marcellus. He wasdistressed that he could not see you to tell you about the choir.""They sang better that Sunday than the Sunday you heard the 'MissaBrevis.' I have got two new trebles. One has an exquisite voice. I wishI could get a few good altos. It was the altos that were wrong when youheard the 'Missa Brevis.' But you didn't hear they were out of tune.That piano has falsified your ear, but it will come back to you.""Dear father, how funny you are! If nothing were more wrong than myear ..."They glanced at each other hastily, and to change the subject hementioned that he had had a letter that morning from Ulick. He hadfinished scoring the second act of Grania, and thinking that he was onsafe ground, Mr. Innes told her that Ulick hoped to finish his score inthe autumn. The third act would not take him long; he had a verycomplete sketch of the music, etc. "I shall enjoy going through hisopera with him.""Father, I don't know how to tell you. Will you ever forgive me or him.Ulick must not come back here--at least not while I am here. Perhaps Ihad better go."The chisel dropped from his hand, and he stood looking at his daughter.His look was pitiful, and she could not bear to see him shake his headslowly from side to side."Poor father is wondering why I am like this;" and to interrupt hisreflections she said--"I don't know why I am like this; that's what you're thinking, father,but henceforth I'll be like mother and my aunts. They were all goodwomen ... I have often wondered why I am like this." Their eyes met, andseized with a sudden dread lest he should think (if such were really thecase) that he was the original cause--she seemed to read something likethat in his eyes--she said, "You must forgive me, whatever I am; youknow that we've always loved each other, and we always shall. Nothingcan come between us; you must be sorry for me, and kiss me, and love memore than ever, for I've been very unhappy. I haven't told you all Ihave given up so that I might be a good woman; it is not easy to makethe sacrifices I have made, but I am happier now that I have made them.Ulick--Ulick must not come here while I'm here, but you'll want to seehim--I had better go. Father, dear, it is hard to say all these things.I've done nothing but bring you trouble. Now I've robbed you of yourfriend. For I've promised not to see Ulick again. If I stay here,father, he must not come--I'm ashamed to ask you this, but what am I todo? I bring trouble. Later on, perhaps, but for a long while he and Imust not meet."Mr. Innes stood looking at his daughter, and a peculiar puzzledexpression had begun in his eyes, and had spread over his face. Hesuddenly shrugged his shoulders; the movement was like Evelyn's shrug,it expressed the same nervous hopelessness."I promised Monsignor that I would not see either.""You went to confession--to him?"Evelyn nodded."But how about Grania?""I'm not going to sing Grania. I've left the stage for good.""Left the stage?""Yes, father, I've left the stage, and I could not go back even ifMonsignor were to permit me. But you must not argue with me; I arguedwith myself until I nearly went mad. Night after night went bysleepless; I was mad one night, and should have poisoned myself if I hadnot found my scapular. But you mustn't question me. Some day when it isall far away I'll tell you the whole story. I cannot speak of it atpresent, it is all too near. Suffice it to say that I have repented, andhave come to ask you if you'll have me back to live with you?""You're my daughter, and you must do as you like. You were alwaysdifferent from anyone else, I cannot cope with you. So you have left thestage, left the stage! What will people think?""I could not be a good woman and remain on the stage, that's what itcomes to." In spite of the gravity of the scene, a smile trickled roundEvelyn's lips, for she could not help seeing her father like a hen thathas hatched out a duckling. He stood looking at her sadly. She had comeback--but what new pond would she plunge into? "I am a veryunsatisfactory person, I know that. I can't make people happy; but thereit is, it can't be otherwise. If I don't sing on the stage, I can singat your concerts. Come downstairs and let's have some music. We'vetalked enough."What shall we play--a Bach sonata? Ah, I remember this," she said,catching sight of the harpsichord part of a suite by J.P. Rameau, forthe harpsichord and viola da gamba. "Where is the viola da gamba part?""In the bottom of that bookcase, I think; don't you remember it?""Well, it is some time since I've played it," she said, smiling, "butI'll try."It seemed to her that she remembered it all wonderfully well, and shewas surprised how every phrase came up correctly under her bow. But shestopped suddenly."I don't remember what comes next."Mr. Innes played the phrase, she played it after him, but she broke downa little further on, and it took some time to find the music. "No, notin that shelf," cried Mr. Innes, "the next one; not that volume, thenext.""Ah, yes, I remember the volume, about the middle?" When she found theplace she said, "Oh, yes, of course," and he answered--"Ah, it seems simple enough now," and they went on together to the end."I've not lost much of my playing, have I?""A little stiffness, perhaps, and you've lost your sense of the oldforms. Now let's play this rondeau of Marais."When they had finished, it was dinner-time, and after dinner they hadmore music. Before going upstairs, Evelyn asked Agnes if there was anyink in her room. She had to ask her father for some writing paper, shewould have avoided doing so if she could have helped it. She feared hewould guess that she was writing to her lovers. She smiled--so odd didher scruples seem to her--she was writing to send them away. Herfather's house was surely the right place. If it were to makeappointments, that would be different. It was long past midnight whenshe read over her letter to Owen."Dear Owen,--A great deal has happened since we last met, and I amconvinced that it would be unwise for me to see you in three months as Ipromised. My confessor is of the same opinion; he thinks three monthstoo soon, and I must obey him. I have taken the step which I hope youwill take some day, for you too are a Catholic. In going to confessionand resolving not to see you again, I had a long struggle with myfeelings; but God gave me grace to overcome them. You know me wellenough by this time, and can have no doubt that I could not live withyou again as your mistress, and as I do not feel that I could marry you,no course is open to me but to beg of you not to write to me, or to tryto see me. Owen, I feel that all this is horrid, that I am horrid lookedat from your side. I cannot seem anything else. I hate it all, but ithas to be done. Perhaps one of these days you will see things as I do."I owe you--I do not know how much, but I owe you a great deal of money.I remember saying that Savelli's lessons were to be considered as adebt, also the expenses of the house in the Rue Balzac. You never wouldtell me what the rent of that house was, but as well as I can calculate,I owe you a thousand pounds for that year in Paris." (Evelyn paused. "Itmust be," she thought, "much more, but it would be difficult for me topay more.")"You have," she continued, "paid for a hundred other things besidesSavelli's lessons and the house in the Rue Balzac, but it would beimpossible to make out a correct account, I feel, too, that you gave methe greatest part of my jewellery thinking that one day I would be yourwife; you would not have given me so much if you had not thought so.Therefore I feel it is only just to offer you the whole of it back. Iwill only ask you to allow me to keep a few trifles--the earrings youbought for me the day we arrived in Paris, the mummy's ring, etc., notmore than half-a-dozen things in all. I should like to keep these inmemory of a time which I ought to forget, but which I am afraid I shallnever have the courage even to try to forget. Dear Owen, I cannot tellyou why I cannot marry you, I only know that I cannot. I am obeying aninstinct far stronger than I, and I cannot struggle against it anylonger."One day perhaps we may meet--but it may not be for years, until we areboth quite different."Sincerely yours,"EVELYN INNES."The moment she had written the address, she threw the pen aside, and shesat striving against an uncontrollable sense of misery. At last herpent-up tears ran over her eyelids. She flung herself on her bed, andlay weeping, shaken by short, choking sobs. All her courage of themorning had forsaken her; she could not face her new life, she could notsend away Owen. Her inmost life rose in revolt. Why was this newsacrifice demanded of her? Why was her life to be made so hard, soimpossible for her to endure? She felt she could not live in the lifewhich she foresaw awaited her. Then she felt that she was being triedbeyond the endurance of any woman. But the storm did not last, her sobsdied away. She sat up, mopping her eyes with a soaking pockethandkerchief, and utterly exhausted by the violence of her emotions, shebegan to undress. She felt the impossibility of saying her prayers, herone longing was for sleep, oblivion; she wished herself dead, and wastoo worn out to put the thought from her, though she knew it was wrong.In the morning the first thing she saw was the letter to Owen. There itwas! And every word and letter sank into her brain. "Sir Owen Asher,Bart., Riversdale, Northamptonshire." She would have to post it, andnever again would she see him. She questioned the right of the priest inobtaining from her a promise not to see him, so long as she did not sin.But Owen was an approximate cause of mortal sin....Ashamed of her instability, and feeling herself unworthy and no longerpure as absolution had made her, she went that afternoon to St.Joseph's, and in confession laid the matter before Monsignor Mostyn.Regarding the money question, he approved of what she had written to SirOwen, and he was far more indulgent regarding her breakdown than she haddared to hope. He had expected some such mental crisis. It wasextraordinary the strength it gave her even to see his stern, graveface; she was thrilled by his certainty on all points, and it no longerseemed difficult to send the letter she had written, or to write asimilar letter to Ulick, which he advised her to send by the same post.She began it the moment she got home, and she wrote in perfectconfidence and courage, the words coming easily to her, so easily thatthere were times when she seemed to hear Monsignor speaking over hershoulder."Dear Ulick,--A very great event has happened in my life since I sawyou. The greatest event that can happen in any life--Grace has beenvouchsafed to me. Now I understand how sinful my life has been, as muchfrom a human as a religious point of view. I deserted my dear father, Ileft him alone to live as best he could. I was not even faithful to mylover. From a worldly point of view I owed him everything, yet for thesake of my passion for you I encouraged myself for a while to dwell onhis faults, to see nothing in him but the small and the mean. I stroveto degrade him in my eyes so that I might find some excuse for lovingyou. You were nice, Ulick, you were kind, you were good to me, and I wasenthusiastic about your genius. One of my greatest troubles now is thatI shall not be able to sing your opera. For a long while this very thingprevented my repentance. I said to myself, 'It is impossible, I cannot,I have promised, I must do what I said I would do. He will think mehateful if I do not create the part.' But these hesitations between whatis certainly right and what is certainly wrong existed in me because Idid not then perceive how very little the things of this world are,compared with eternal things, and that nothing matters compared with thenecessity of saving our souls. All this is now quite clear to me, and itwould therefore be madness for me to remain on the stage, recognising asI do that it is a source of grave temptation to me. You will try tounderstand, dear Ulick, you will try to look at things from my point ofview. You will see that it is impossible for me to act otherwise."I am living now with my father, and must not see you when you return toLondon. I have promised my confessor not to see you. One of these days,in years to come, when you and I are different beings, we may meet, butwe must not see each other at present. I must beg of you not to write orto try to see me. My resolve is unalterable, and any attempt on yourpart to induce me to return to my old life will be useless. It asalready far away and inconceivable to me. I know that by asking you notto come to Dulwich I am robbing my father of his friend. I have neverbrought happiness to anyone, not to father, not to Sir Owen, not to you,not to myself. If other proof were wanting, would not this fact beenough to convince me that my life has been all wrong? What it will bein the future I don't know, I have confidence in the goodness of God andin the wisdom of my spiritual adviser.--Sincerely yours,"EVELYN INNES.""_P.S._--In course of conversation with my father, I mentionedinadvertently that you were my lover; I begged him not to be angry withyou, but I know that I should not have mentioned your name. I must askyou to forgive me this too."The next day and the day following were lived within herself, sometimesviewing God far away, as if at one end of a great plain, and herselfkneeling penitent at the other. She was filled with thoughts of hisinfinite goodness and mercy, and of the miraculous intercession of theVirgin at the moment when she was about to commit a crime that wouldhave lost her her soul for ever. She went to Mass daily, and tookpeculiar delight in reciting the hymn which Monsignor had given her fora penance. She regretted it was not more. It seemed to her such atrivial penance, and she reflected on the blackness of her sins, and thepenances which the saints had imposed upon themselves. But her chiefdesire was to keep herself pure in thought, and she read pious bookswhen she was alone, and encouraged her mind to dwell on the profoundmystery in which she was going to participate, and to believe in themarvellous change it would produce in her.It was on Friday morning that Agnes handed her Ulick's letter. She didnot read it at once, it lay on the table while she was dressing, and shewas uncertain whether it would not be better to put off reading it untilshe came back from St. Joseph's."Alas, from our first meeting, and before it, we were aware of the fatewhich has overtaken us. We heard it in our hearts, that numbrestlessness, that vague disquietude, that prophetic echo which neverdies out of ears attuned to the music of destiny ... Love you less, youwho are the source of all joy to me? Evelyn, my heart aches and my brainis light with grief, but the terrible certitude persists that we arebeing drawn asunder. I see you like a ship that has cleared the harbourbar, and is already amid the tumult of the ocean.... We are ships, andthe destiny of ships is the ocean, the ocean draws us both: we haverested as long as may be, we have delayed our departure, but the tidehas lifted us from our moorings. With an agonised heart I watched thesails of your ship go up, and now I see that mine, too, are going aloft,hoisted by invisible hands. I look back upon the bright days and quietnights we have rested in this tranquil harbour. Like ships that haverested a while in a casual harbour, blown hither by storms, we part,drawn apart by the eternal magnetism of the sea. I would go to you,Evelyn, if I could, and pray you not to leave me. But you would nothear: destiny hears no prayers. In the depths of our consciousness,below the misery of the moment, there lies a certain sense that our waysare different ways, and that we must fare forth alone, whither we knownot, over the ocean's rim; and in this sense of destiny we must findcomfort. Will resignation, which is the highest comfort, come to us intime? My eyes fall upon my music paper, and at the same time your eyesturn to the crucifix. Ours is the same adventure, though a differentbreeze fills the sails, though the prows are set to a different horizon.God is our quest--you seek him in dogma, I in art."But, Evelyn, my heart is aching so. How awful the word never, and theyears are filled with its echoes. And the wide ocean which lies outsidethe harbour is so lonely, and I have no heart for any other joy. 'May wenot meet again?' my heart cries from time to time; 'may not somepropitious storm blow us to the same anchorage again, into the sameport?' Ah, the suns and the seas we shall have sailed through wouldrender us unrecognisable, we should not know each other. Last night Iwandered by the quays, and, watching the constellations, I asked if wewere divided for ever, if, when the earth has become part and parcel ofthe stars, our love will not reappear in some starry affinity, in somestellar friendship.--Yours,"ULICK DEAN."The symbol of the ships seemed to Evelyn to express the union and thedivision and the destiny that had overtaken them. She sat and pondered,and in her vision ships hailed each other as they crossed in mid-ocean.Ships drew together as they entered a harbour. Ships separated as theyfared forth, their prows set towards different horizons. She satabsorbed in the mystery of destiny. Like two ships, they had rested sideby side in a casual harbour. They had loved each other as well as theirdifferent destinies had allowed them. None can do more. She loved himbetter--in a way--but he was less to her than Owen. She felt that, andhe had felt that.... As he said, if they were to meet again they wouldnot recognise each other, so different were the suns that would shineupon them and the oceans they would travel through. She understood whathe meant, and a prevision of her future life seemed to nicker up in herbrain, like the sea seen through a mist; and through vistas in the hazeshe saw the lonely ocean, and her bark was already putting off from theshore. All she had known she was leaving behind. The destiny of ships isthe ocean.Owen's letter she received in the evening about six o'clock. She changedcolour at the sight of it, and her hand trembled, and she tore theenvelope across as she opened it."You ask me to make no attempt to save you. You ask me to stand on thebank while you struggle and are dragged down by the current. Evelyn, Ihave never disobeyed your slightest wish before, but I declare my rightto use all means to save you from a terrible fate. I return to London todo so. God only knows if I shall succeed.... In any case I hope you willnever allude again to any money questions. What I gave, I gave, andunless you want to kill me outright, never speak again of returning mypresents.--As ever,OWEN ASHER."Her eyes ran through the lines, and her heart said, "How he loves me."But the temptation to see him quenched instantly in remembrance of herCommunion, and she tore the letter hastily into two pieces, as if bydestroying it she destroyed the difficulty it had created for her. Shemust not see him. But how was she to avoid meeting him? To-morrow bewould be waiting in the street for her, and she walked about the roomtoo agitated to think clearly. He seemed like the devil trying to comebetween her and God. She must not see him, of that she was quite sure.She would lock herself in her room. But then she would miss HolyCommunion, and her heart was set on the Sacrament; the Sacrament alonecould give her strength to persevere. To see him and to hear him wouldruin her peace of mind, and peace of mind was essential to the reverentreception of the Sacrament. It was lost already, or very nearly. Shestopped in her walk, she looked into her soul, she asked herself if anythought had crossed her mind which would render her unfit for Communion... and on the spot she resolved to go straight to Monsignor and consulthim. He would advise her, he would find some way out of the difficulty.But it was now six; she could not get to St. Joseph's before seven. Itwas late, but she did not think he would refuse to see her; he wouldknow that it was only a matter of the greatest moment that would bringher to inquire for him at that hour.It was as she expected. Monsignor did not receive anyone so late in theevening."Yes, I know, but I think Monsignor Mostyn will see me. Tell him--tellhim that my business does not admit delay."She was shown into the same waiting-room. This seemed to her afavourable presage, and she offered up a prayer that Monsignor would notrefuse to see her; everything depended on that. She listened for hisstep; twice she was mistaken; at last the door opened. It was he, and heguessed, before she had time to speak, what had happened."One of those men," he said, "has come again into your life?"She nodded, and, still unable to speak, she searched in her pocket fortheir letters."I received these letters to-day--one this morning, the other, SirOwen's, just now. That was why I came. I felt that I had to see you.""Pray sit down, my child, you are agitated." He handed her a chair."You remember you said I might go to Communion on Sunday, and if I wereto meet him to-morrow it would--there is no temptation, I don't meanthat--but I do not wish to be reminded of things which you told me I wasto try to forget."The priest stood reading the letters, and Evelyn sat looking into space,absorbed in the desire to escape from Owen. All her faith was inMonsignor, and she believed he would be able to save her from Owen'sintrusion."I don't think you need fear anything from Mr. Dean.""No, not from him."Monsignor continued to read Ulick's letter. Evelyn wished he would readOwen's; Ulick's interested her not in the least."Mr. Dean seems a very extraordinary person. Does he believed inastrology, the casting of horoscopes, or is it mere affectation?""I don't know; he always talks like that. He believes, or says hebelieves, in Lir and the great Mother Dana, in the old Irish Gods. But,Monsignor, please read Sir Owen's letter. I want to know what I am todo."He walked once across the room, and when he returned to the table hesaid half to himself, as if his thoughts had long out-stripped hiswords--"I am glad I advised you to leave Park Lane, for of course he will gothere first.""He will easily find out I'm at Dulwich, he need not even ask--he willguess it at once.""Yes, to be sure.""If I am not to meet him I must go away--but where? All my friends andacquaintances are his friends. You would approve of none of themMonsignor," she said, smiling a little.He did not seem to hear her. Suddenly he said, "I think you had bettergo and spend a few days at the Passionist Convent. The Reverend Mothersent you an invitation through me, you remember, so we need have nohesitation in proposing it. Indeed, I feel confident that they willreceive you with the greatest pleasure. It will do you a great deal ofgood. You will have peace and quiet, my child; you will find yourself inan atmosphere of faith and purity which cannot but be helpful to you inyour present unsettled state."It seemed to Evelyn that that was what she had wanted all the time, onlyshe had not been able to say so. Yes; to spend a week with those dearnuns, to sit in the convent garden, to kneel before the BlessedSacrament in the convent church, it would be a real spiritual luxury."Yes, I should love to go," she said. "I feel it is just what I need. Ihave so much to think out, so much to learn, and at home there are ahundred things to distract me.""Very well, then, that is settled. I will send the Reverend Mother wordto-morrow; but there is no necessity, you can write yourself, and sayyou are coming in the afternoon; she will only have to get your roomready.""But, Monsignor, my Communion? I had forgotten it was from you I was toreceive Holy Communion. Of course I know it doesn't really make anydifference, but still, you heard my confession, and I would far ratherreceive Communion this first time from you than from anyone else. Idon't think it could be quite the same thing--if it weren't from you.""And I should be sorry too, my child, as by God's grace I have been themeans of bringing you thus far, not to complete your reconciliation tohim. But I think we can manage that too without much difficulty. I sayMass to-morrow at nine o'clock, and will give you Communion then, andyou can go to the convent for your retreat early in the afternoon. Willthat suit you?"And Evelyn could not find words to express her gratitude.That evening she sat with her father. He was busy stringing a lute, andthey had not spoken for some time; they often spent quite long whileswithout speaking, and only occasionally they raised their eyes to seeeach other. The sensation of the other's presence was sufficient fortheir happiness.CHAPTER THIRTY-THREEIt being Saturday, there was choir practice at St. Joseph's, and whenEvelyn returned her father had left, and she breakfasted alone. Afterbreakfast she sat absorbed in the mysteries of the Sacrament she hadreceived. But in the middle of her exaltation doubt intervened, andOwen's arguments flashed through her mind. She strove to banish them; itwas terrible that she should think such things over again, and on themorning of her Communion. Her spiritual joy was blighted; she could onlyhope that these dreadful thoughts were temptations of the devil, andthat she was in no wise responsible. She stood in the middle of theroom, asking herself if she had not in some slight measure yielded tothem. No direct answer came to her question, but the words, "When I'm abad woman I believe, when I'm a good woman I doubt," sounded clear anddistinct in her brain, and she remained thinking a long while.Her father came in after lunch. And while she spoke about his treblesand his altos, she was thinking how she should tell him that she wasgoing away that afternoon."You're very silent.""I was at Holy Communion this morning.""This morning? I thought you were going to Communion on Sunday?""Yes, so I was, but I received a letter from Owen Asher saying heintended to see me. I took it to Monsignor; he said it was necessarythat I should not see Owen, and he advised me to go and stay with theSisters at Wimbledon. That is why I went to Communion this morning; Iwanted Monsignor to give me Communion. Father, I cannot remain here, Ishould be sure to meet him.""He will not come here.""No, but he'll be waiting in the street.""When are you going?""This afternoon," she answered, and handed him Owen's letter. He glancedat it, and said--"He seems very fond of you."The answer shocked her, and nothing more was said on the subject. Alittle later she asked him about the trains. She did not know how shewas to get from Dulwich to Wimbledon. Neither were very apt in lookingout the trains, and eventually it was Agnes who discovered the changesthat would have to be made. She would have to go first to Victoria, andthen she would have to drive from Victoria to Waterloo, and this seemedso complicated and roundabout that she decided to drive all the way in ahansom. Dulwich and Wimbledon could not be more than ten miles apart."I must go upstairs now, father, and pack my things."Her father followed her and stood by, while she hesitated what sheshould take. Smiling, she rejected a tea-gown as unsuitable for conventwear, and put in a black lace scarf which she thought would be usefulfor wearing in church; it would look better in the convent chapel than ahat. Instead of a flowered silk she chose a grey alpaca. Then sheremembered that she must take some books with her. It would be uselessto bring pious books with her, she would find plenty of those in theconvent."Have you any books, father? I must have something to read.""There are a few books downstairs; you know them all.""You don't read much, father?""Not much, except music. But Ulick brings books here, you may findsomething among them."She returned with Berlioz's _Memoirs_, Pater's _Imaginary Portraits_,and Blake's _Songs of Innocence and Experience_."I suppose these books belong to Ulick. I don't know if I ought to takethem.""I cannot advise you; you must do as you like. I suppose you'll bringthem back?""Oh, yes, of course I shall bring them back.""Evelyn, dear, is it quite essential that you should go?""Yes, father, yes, it is quite; but I don't know how I am to get away.""How you're to get away! What do you mean?""Well," she answered, laughing, "you see in his letter he says he'scoming to watch me. Father, I can see that you pity him; you're sorryfor him, aren't you?""Well, Evelyn, he offered to marry you, he made you a great singer, andyou say he'd do anything for you. I suppose I am sorry for him."They stood looking out of the window."You know I'd like to stop with you; it can't be helped; but I shallcome back.""Do you think you'll come back?""Of course I shall come back. Where should I go if I did not come back?"At that moment Agnes drove up in a hansom; she ran up the little garden,and carried out Evelyn's bag and placed it in the hansom."I must go now, father; good-bye, darling. I shan't be away more thanseven or eight days."A moment after her dear father was behind her, and she was alone in thehansom, driving towards the convent. About her were villas engarlandedwith reddening creeper. On one lawn a family had assembled under theshade of a dwarf cedar, and miles of this kind of landscape lay beforeher. It seemed to her like painted paper, an illusion that might passaway at any moment. Her truth was no longer in the external world, butin her own soul. Her soul was making for a goal which she could notdiscern. She was leaving a life of wealth and fame and love for a lifeof poverty, chastity and obscurity. All the joy and emulation of thestage she was relinquishing for a dull, narrow, bare life at Dulwich,giving singing lessons and saying prayers at St. Joseph's. Yet there wasno question which she would choose, and she marvelled at the strangenessof her choice.The road lay through fields and past farmhouses, but the suburban streetwas never quite lost sight of. Its blue roofs and cheap porticosappeared unexpectedly at the end of an otherwise romantic prospect, andso on and so on, until the driver let his horse walk up Wimbledon hill.When they reached the top she craned her neck, and was in time to catcha glimpse of the windmill far away to the right. The inn was in front ofher, the end of a long point of houses stretching into the common, andthe hansom rolled easily on the wide, curving roads. She anticipated thechoked gardens, the decaying pear trees, the gold crowns of sunflowers;and a moment after the hansom passed these things and she saw the oldgreen door, and heard the jangling peal. The eyes of the lay sisterlooked through the barred loop-hole."How do you do, sister? I suppose you expected me?"The cabman put the trunk inside the long passage, and Evelyn said--"But my luggage.""If you'll come into the parlour I'll get one of the sisters to help meto carry it upstairs."Evelyn was sitting at the table turning over the leaves of theConfessions of St. Augustine, when the Reverend Mother entered. Sheseemed to Evelyn even smaller than she had done on the first occasionthey had met; she seemed lost in the voluminous grey habit, and thelong, light veil floated in the wind of her quick step."I'm glad you were able to come so soon. All the sisters are anxious tomeet you, you who have done so much for us.""I've done very little, Reverend Mother. Could I have done less for myold convent? I hope that your difficulties are at an end.""At an end, no, but you helped us over a critical moment in the fortunesof our convent."Her hands were leaned against the edge of the table, her white fingers,white with age, played with the hem of her veil, her blue, anxious eyeswere fixed on Evelyn at once tenderly, expectantly, and compassionately.Her voice was the clear, refined voice which signifies society, andEvelyn would not have been surprised to learn that she belonged to anold aristocratic family, Evelyn imagined her to be a woman in whom thegenius of government dominated, and who, not having found an outlet intothe world, had turned to the cloister. Was that her story? Evelynwondered, and suddenly seemed to forsee a day when she would hear thestory which shone behind those clear blue eyes, and obliterated age fromthe white face.They went up the circular staircase, at the top of which was a largelanding; there were two rooms at the head of the stairs, and theReverend Mother said--"These are our guest chambers." Standing on a second landing, one stephigher than the first, a solid wooden partition had been erected, andpointing to a door the nun said with a laugh, "That door leads to thesisters' cells. You must not make a mistake."Evelyn was pleased to see that her room had two windows overlooking thegarden. There was a table covered by a cloth at which she could write,and she bent over the bowl of roses and wondered which kind nun hadgathered them. The Reverend Mother left her, saying that she would betold when supper was ready, and on looking round the room she perceivedher portmanteau, which the lay sister had not unstrapped. She would haveto unstrap it herself. She remembered that she had brought very fewthings with her, and yet she was surprised at the smallness of herluggage. For she usually took half-a-dozen dresses with her, now she hadonly brought one change, a grey alpaca. She thought she might have lefther dressing-case behind, a plain brush and comb would have been all sheneeded. But at the last moment, she had felt that she could not dowithout these bottles of scent and brushes and nicknacks; they hadseemed indispensable. The dressing-case was Owen's influence stillpursuing her. She had not known why she was compelled to bring thedressing-case, now she knew--Owen! Never would she be able to whollyseparate herself from him. He had become part of her.As she stood in the convent room noticing the beeswaxed floor and thetwo rugs, one by the small iron bed, she remembered a hunting morningthree years ago at Riversdale. She had gone to Owen's room to see if hewere ready. A multitude of orders were being given there, the valet wassearching anxiously in the large wardrobe, piled high with many variouscoats and trousers; Owen stood before the looking-glass tying a whitescarf, and two footmen watched each movement, dreading a mistake. Sheremembered that she had been amused at the time, and she never recalledthe scene without smiling. But she had liked Owen better for theinnumerable superfluities, all of which were necessary to his happiness,the breakdown of any one of which made him the most miserable man alive.She remembered how she had secretly imitated him, and how she hadgathered about her a mass of superfluous necessities. But they had neverbecome necessities to her, they had always galled her. It was in aspirit of perversity she had imitated him. She had always felt it to bewrong to eat peaches at five francs a piece, and had always been awareof an inward resentment against the extravagance of a reserved carriageon the railway and private saloon on board the boat. She had alwaysdesired a simple life; the life of these nuns was a simple life, simplerperhaps than she cared for. There was no hot water in her room, shewondered how she would wash her hands, and smiling at her philosophicalreflections, she thought how Owen would laugh if he could see her in herpresent situation--in a convent, crying out for a constant supply of hotwater and her maid. A religious life with home comforts, that was whatshe wanted.She was always a subject of amusement to herself, and she was stillsmiling when a knock awoke her from her whimsical reveries. She answered"Come in," and an elderly nun told her that supper was ready in theparlour. In this room, furnished with a table and six chairs and fourpious prints, Evelyn ate her convent meal, a sort of mixed meal, whichincluded soup, cold meat, coffee, jam and some unripe pears. Theporteress took the plates away, and somehow Evelyn could not helpfeeling that she was giving a good deal of trouble. She could see thatthe nuns did everything for themselves, and she abandoned hope of everfinding a can of hot water in her room. She remembered that when shemade her retreat some years ago, she had not noticed these things. Sheowed all her wants to Owen. Mother Philippa came in, delighted to seeher, and anxious to know if she had everything she wanted."I thought you would be sure to be going abroad, and that next Easter,the time you were here before, would be the time to ask you.""But the Reverend Mother thought that now would be a better time.""Yes, she said that Easter was a long way off, and that a rest would doyou good after singing all the season in London."Evelyn wondered what idea the phrase "the season in London" awoke in themind of the nun. A little puzzled look did pass in her eyes, and thenshe resumed her friendly chatter. Evelyn listened, more interested inMother Philippa's kind, amicable nature than in what she said. Sheimagined in different circumstances what a good wife she would havebeen, and what a good mother! "But she is happier as she is." Evelyncould not imagine any soul-rending uncertainties in Mother Philippa. Ata certain age, at seventeen or eighteen, she had felt that she wouldlike to be a nun; very probably she was not any more pious than hersisters; she had merely felt that the life would suit her. That was herstory. Evelyn smiled, and looked into Mother Philippa's mild eyes, inwhich there was nothing but simple kindness, and with a yes and a no shekept the conversation going till the bell rang for Office."I do not know if you would care to come to church. Perhaps you aretired after your journey?""Journey! I have only driven a few miles."Evelyn ran upstairs for her hat, and she followed the nun down thecloister which led to the church."That is your door, it will take you into the outer church."The nuns' choir was still empty, but the two candles on the high altarwere already lit, ready for Matins and Lauds. Evelyn had only just takenher place, when at that moment a door opened on the other side of thegrille, and the grey figures, their heads a little bent, came in couplesand took their place in the stalls. They were wonderfully beautiful andimpressive, and the idea they represented seemed to Evelynextraordinary, simple and true. For, once we are convinced that there isa God, and that we are here to save our souls, it were surely folly tothink of anything else. Our loves and our ambitions, what are they whenwe consider him? and Evelyn remembered how he waits for us in aneternity of bliss and love, only asking for our love. These were thewise ones, they thought of the essential and let the ephemeral andcircumstantial go by them. Even from a worldly point of view, their lifewas the wiser, since it produced the greater happiness. Owen was a proofof this. She remembered how he used to say he had the finest place, themost beautiful pictures, and the most desirable mistress in Europe. Yethe was always the unhappiest man she knew. His life had been anunceasing effort to capture happiness, and he had failed because he hadsought happiness from without instead of seeking it from within. Helived in externals, he was dependent on a multitude of things, thebreakdown of any one of which was sufficient to cause him the acutestmisery. The howl of a dog, the smell of a cigar, any trifle wassufficient to wreck his happiness. He had taught her to live in externalthings, to place her faith in the world instead of in her ownconscience. How unhappy she had been; she had been driven to the brinkof suicide. Ah, if it had not been for Monsignor. She bent her face onher hands, and did not dare to think further.When her prayer was finished, she listened to the high monotonous chantof the nuns reciting Matins. It sank into her soul, soothing it, and atthe same time inspiring an ardent melancholy. The long, unbroken rhythmflowed on and on, each side of the choir chanting an alternate verse. Inthe dimness of her sensation, Evelyn lost count of time, nor did sheknow of what she was thinking. She was suddenly awakened by a sound ofshuffling. The nuns had risen to their feet, and in the middle of thefloor a sister began the lessons in a shrill voice, keeping always onthe same note, never letting her voice fall at the close of thesentences. Evelyn grew more interested; the rite was full of apenetrating mystery. She viewed the lines of grey nuns and heard theLatin syllables. These poor nuns whom she was just now pitying for theirignorance of life could at all events read the Office in Latin.CHAPTER THIRTY-FOURWhen she opened her eyes and saw the convent room, she remembered howshe had come there. Her still dreaming face lighted up with a smile, andshe began to wonder what was going to happen next. Soon after, someoneknocked. It was the little porteress telling her that it was seveno'clock. Evelyn expected her to come in, pull up the blinds and pour outher bath. But she did not even open the door, and Evelyn lay lookingthrough the strange room, unable to face the discomfort of a small basinof cold water. She would have to do her hair herself, and there was notoilette table. The convent seemed suddenly a place to flee from; shehadn't realised that it would be like this.... But it would never do forher to miss Mass, and she sat on the edge of the bed, unable to think ofany solution of her difficulties. The only glass in the room was about afoot square; it had been placed on the chest of drawers, and nothingseemed to Evelyn more inefficient than this wretched glass. Its veryposition on the top of the chest of drawers was vexatious. She could noteven get it into the proper angle, and when she removed the piece ofpaper that held it in position, it swung round and its back confrontedher. That morning it seemed as if she could not dress herself. Her hairhad curled itself into many a knot; she nearly broke the comb, and herhand dropped by her side, and then she laughed outright, having caughtsight of some part of her dejection. As she hooked on her skirt shereflected on the necessity of not leaving bottles of scent nor too manysponges for the observation of the nuns; and the nightgown she hadbrought was certainly not a conventual garment.She hurried downstairs, and was just in time to see the nuns coming intochurch. They came in by a side door, walking two by two, and Evelyn wasagain struck by the beauty and mystery of this grey procession. She hadseen on the stage the outward show of men who had renounced theworld--the pilgrims in "Tannhaeuser," the knights in "Parsifal," but thiswas no outward show. The women she was now witnessing had renounced theworld; the life she was witnessing was the life they lived from hour tohour, from day to day, from year to year. She had included lovers amidtheir renunciations; such inclusion was ridiculous, for of such sins ashers they had not even dreamed. To pass through life without knowinglife! To have renounced, to have refused love, friends, art, everything,dinner-parties, conversations, all the distractions which we believemake life endurable, to have refused these things from thebeginning--not even to have been tempted to taste, not even to havedesired to put life to the test of a fugitive personal experience, butto have divined from the first, by instinct, by the grace of God, theworthlessness of life--that was what was so wonderful. Mother Philippa,that simple nun, had done this, instinct had led her--there was no otherexplanation. She had arrived at the same conclusion as the wisest of thephilosophers and without any soul-searching, by instinct--each of thehumble lay sisters, the little porteress had done this. And Evelyn wasfilled with shame when she thought of the effort it had cost her to freeherself from a life of sin.In extraordinary beauty of grey habit and veil and solemn procession,the nuns passed to their seats. Now they were kneeling altarwise, andEvelyn was still occupied by the thought that this was not outward showas she had often seen it on the stage, but the thing itself. This wasnot acting, this was truth, the truth of all their lifetimes.Suddenly began the plaint of the organ, and some half-dozen voices sanga hymn; and these pale, etiolated voices interested her. It was not theclear, sexless voice of boys, these were women's voices, out of whichsex had faded like colour out of flowers; and these pale, deciduousvoices wailing a poor, pathetic music, so weak and feeble that it wasalmost interesting through its very feebleness, interested Evelyn. Tearstrembled in her eyes, and she listened to the poor voices rising andfalling, breaking forth spasmodically in the lamentable hymn. "Desolate"and "forgotten" were the words that came up in her mind.They were still kneeling altarwise; their profiles turned from her.Outside of the choir stalls, on either side of the church, were twospecial stalls, and the Reverend Mother and the sub-prioress kneltapart. Their backs were turned to Evelyn, and she noticed the finedelicate shoulders of the Reverend Mother, and the heavy figure ofMother Philippa. "Even in their backs they are like themselves," shethought. She smiled at her descriptive style, "like themselves," andthen, seeing that Mass had begun, she resolutely repressed all levity,and began her prayers. She had not felt especially pious till thatmoment, and to rouse herself she remembered Monsignor's words, "That atthe height of her artistic career she should have been awakened to asense of her own exceeding sinfulness was a miracle of his grace," andshe felt that the devotion of her whole life to his service would not bea sufficient return for what he had done for her. But in spite of herefforts she followed the sacrifice of the Mass in her normalconsciousness until the bell rang for the Elevation. When the priestraised the Host she was conscious of the Real Presence. She raised hereyes a little, and the bent figures of the nuns, their veils hangingloose about them, contributed to her exaltation, and with a last effort,holding as it were her life in her hands, she asked pardon of God forher sins.Then the pale, etiolated voices of the nuns, the wailing of these weakvoices--there were three altos, three sopranos--began again. They weresinging an Agnus Dei, a simple little music nowise ugly, merely feeble,touchingly commonplace; they were singing in unison thirds and fifths,and the indifferent wailing of the voices contrasted with the firmnessof the organist's touch; and Evelyn knew that they had one musicianamong them. She listened, touched by the plaintive voices, so feeble inthe ears of man, but beautiful in God's ears. God heard beyond the merenotes; the music of the intention was what reached God's ears. The musicof these poor voices was more favourable in his ears than her voice.Months she had spent seeking the exact rhythm of a phrase intended todepict and to rouse a sinful desire. Though the hymns were ugly--andthey were very ugly--she would have done better to sing them; and shesought to press herself into the admission that art which does not tendto the glory of God is vain and harmful. Far better these hideous hymns,if singing them conducts to everlasting life. But every time she pressedher mind towards an inevitable conclusion, it turned off into an obscurebypath. She brought it back like an intractable ass, but the stubbornbeast again dodged her, and she had to abandon the attempt to convinceherself that art which did not tend to the honour and glory of Godshould be suppressed--should be at least avoided. Once we were convincedthat there was a God and a resurrection, this world must become asnothing in our eyes, only it didn't become as nothing in our eyes; everysacrifice should become easy, but every sacrifice didn't become easy.That was the point; to these nuns, perhaps, not to her. At least notyet.She had fussed a great deal this morning because she had no hot water towash with. Seven o'clock had seemed to her somewhat early to get up. Butthey had been up long before. She had heard of nuns who got up at fourin the morning to say the Office. She did not know what time these nunsgot up, but she felt that she was not capable of much greater sacrificethan six or seven o'clock. These nuns lived on a little coarse food, andspent the day in prayer. She thought of their aching knees in the longvigils of their adorations. She understood that the inward happinesstheir life gives them compensates them for all their privations. Sheunderstood that they are the only ones who are happy, yet the knowledgedid not help her; she felt that she would never be happy in theirhappiness, and a great sorrow came over her. Mass was over, and againthe beautiful procession, with bowed heads and meekly folded veils,glided out of the church. Only the watchers remained.Last night she had sat watching the stars shining on the convent garden.There were, as Owen said, twenty millions of suns in the Milky Way;beyond the Milky Way there were other constellations of which we knownothing, nebulae which time has not yet resolved into stars, or stars sodistant that time has not yet brought their light hither. But why seekmystery beyond this poor planet? It furnishes enough, surely. That weshould see the stars, that we should know the stars, that we shouldplace God above the stars--are not these common facts as wonderful asthe stars themselves? That those twenty or five-and-twenty women shouldgive up all the seduction of life for the sake of an idea, acceptingOwen's theory that it is but an idea, even so the wonder of it is notless; even from Owen's point of view is not this convent as wonderful asthe stars?On coming out of church, she was told that in half-an-hour her breakfastwould be ready in the parlour, and to loosen the mental tension--she hadthought and felt a great deal in the last hour--she asked the lay sisterwho were the nuns who sang in the choir. The lay sister answered herperfunctorily. Evelyn could see that she was not open at that moment toconversation. She guessed that the sister had work to attend to, and wasnot surprised that she did not come back to take the things away.Although only just begun, the day had already begun to seem long. Sheproposed to herself some pious reading; and wondered how she was goingto get through the day. She would have liked to go into the garden; butshe did not know the rules of the convent, and feared to transgressthem. However, she was free to go to her room. The books she had broughtwith her would help her to get through the morning.Berlioz's _Memoirs I_ The faded voices she had heard that morningsinging dreary hymns were more wonderful than his orchestral dreams. Nordid she find the spiritual stimulus she needed in Pater's _ImaginaryPortraits_. Some moody souls reflecting with no undue haste, withoutundue desire to arrive at any definite opinion concerning certainartistic problems, did not appeal to her. She put the book aside,fearing that she was in no humour for reading that morning; and withlittle hope of being interested, she took up another book. The size ofthe volume and the disproportion of the type seemed to drag her to it,and the title was a sort of prophetic echo of the interest she was tofind in the book. Her thoughts clouded in a sense of delight as sheread; she followed as a child follows a butterfly, until the flutteringcolour disappears in the sky. And before she was aware of any idea, theharmony of the gentle prose captivated her, and she sat down, holding inher heart the certitude that she was going to be enchanted. The bookprocured for her the delicious sensualism of reading things at once newand old. It seemed to her that she was reading things that she had knownalways, but which she had somehow neglected to think out for herself.The book seemed like her inner self suddenly made clear. All that theauthor said on the value of Silence was so true. She raised her eyesfrom the page to think. She seemed to understand something, but shecould not tell what it was. The object of every soul is to unite itselfto another soul, to be absorbed in another, to find life and happinessin another; the desire of unison is the deepest instinct in man. But howlittle, the author asked, do words help us to understand? We talk andtalk, and nothing is really said; the conversation falls, we walk sideby side, our eyes fixed on the quiet skies, and lo! our souls cometogether and are united in their immortal destiny. She again raised hereyes from the page--now she understood, and she thought a long while.The chapter entitled "The Profound Life" interested her equally. Thenuns realised it, but those who live in the world live on the surface ofthings. To live a life of silence and devotion, illumined not fromwithout but from within, the eternal light that never fails or withers,and to live unconscious of the great stream of things, our back turnedto that great stream flowing mysteriously, solemnly, like a river! Thechapter entitled "Warnings" had for her a strangely personal meaning.How true it is that we know everything, only we have not acquired theart of saying it. Had she not always known that her destiny was not withOwen, that he was but a passing, not the abiding event of her life? Shelooked through the convent room, and the abiding event of her life nowseemed to murmur in her ear, seemed to pass like a shadow before hereyes. At the moment when she thought she was about to hear and see, aknock came at her door, and the revelation of her destiny passed, with alittle ironical smile, out of her eyes and ears.Her visitor was a strange little nun whom she had not seen before. Overher slim figure the white serge habit fell in such graceful, mediaevallines as Evelyn had seen in German cathedrals; and her face was delicateand childlike beneath the white forehead band. She came forward with adiffident little smile."Reverend Mother sent me to you; she is watching now, or she would havecome herself, but she thought you might like me to take you round thegarden. She will join us there when she comes out of church. ButReverend Mother said you must do just as you liked."The little nun corresponded to her mood even as the book had done; sheseemed an apparition, a ghost risen from its pages. Her face was a thinoval, and the purity of the outline was accentuated by the whitekerchief which surrounded it. The nose was slightly aquiline, the china little pointed, the lips well cut, but thin and colourless--lips thatEvelyn thought had never been kissed, and that never would be kissed.The thought seemed disgraceful, and Evelyn noticed hastily the darkalmond eyes that saved the face from insipidity; the black eyebrows werefirmly and delicately drawn, her complexion, without being pale, wasextraordinarily transparent, and the thin hands and long, narrowfingers, half hidden beneath the long sleeves, were in the same idea ofmediaeval delicacy."I was longing to go out, but I had not the courage. I feared it mightbe against the rule for me to go into the garden alone. But tell mefirst who you are.""Oh, I'm Sister Veronica. I'm only a novice as yet."Evelyn noticed that, unlike the other nuns she had seen, Sister Veronicawore neither the silver heart on her breast, suspended by a red cord,nor the long straight scapular which gave such dignity to the religioushabit. Her habit was held in at the waist by a leather girdle; it lookedas though it might slip any moment over the slight, boyish hips, and byher side hung a rosary of large black beads.Sister Veronica warned Evelyn that she must be careful how she went downthe staircase, as it was very slippery. Evelyn said she would becareful; she added that the sisters kept the stairs in beautiful order,and wondered what her next remark would be. She was nervous in thepresence of these convent women, lest by some unfortunate remark sheshould betray herself. And when they reached the garden it was SisterVeronica who was the most self-possessed--she was already confessing toEvelyn that they had all felt very nervous knowing that a "real" singerwas listening to them."Oh, do you sing?" Evelyn asked eagerly."Well, I have to try," Sister Veronica answered, with a little laugh."Mother Prioress thought perhaps I might learn, so she put me in thechoir, but Sister Mary John says I shall never be the least use.""Is Sister Mary John the sister who teaches you?""Yes; it is she who played the organ at Mass. She loves music. She issimply longing to hear you sing, Miss Innes. Do you think you will singat Benediction this afternoon for us? It would be lovely.""I don't know, really. You see I haven't been asked yet.""Oh, Reverend Mother is sure to ask you--at least I hope she will. Weall want to hear you so much."They were sitting in the shadow of a great elm; all around was awonderful silence, and to turn the conversation from herself, Evelynasked Sister Veronica if she didn't care for their beautiful garden."Oh, yes, indeed I do. I'm glad you like it.... When I was a child mygreatest treat was to be allowed to play in the nuns' garden.""Then you knew the convent long before you came to be a nun yourself?""Oh, yes, I've known it all my life.""So it was not strange when you came here first?""No, it was like coming home."Evelyn repeated the nun's words to herself, "Like coming home." And sheseemed to see far into their meaning. Here was an illustration of whatshe had read in the book--she and Veronica seemed to understand eachother in the silence. But it became necessary to speak, and in answer toa question, Sister Veronica told Evelyn that there were four novices andtwo postulants in the novitiate, and that the name of the novicemistress was Mother Mary Hilda. The novitiate was in the upper storey ofthe new wing, above the convent refectory."And here is Reverend Mother," and Sister Veronica suddenly got up.Evelyn got up too, and they waited till the elderly nun slowly crossedthe lawn. Evelyn noticed, even when the Reverend Mother was seated, thatVeronica remained standing."You can go now, Veronica."Veronica smiled a little good-bye to Evelyn, and left them immediately."Veronica told you, Miss Innes, I was taking my watch?""Yes, Reverend Mother.""I hope she has not been wearying you with the details of our life?""On the contrary, I have been very much interested.... Your life here isso beautiful that I long to know more about it. At present my knowledgeis confined to the fact that the second storey in the new wing is thenovitiate, and that there are four novices and two postulants." TheReverend Mother smiled, and after a pause Evelyn added--"But Sister Veronica is very young.""She is older than she looks, she is nearly twenty. Ever since she wasquite a child she wished to be a nun. Even then her mind was quite madeup.""She told me that when she was a child her great pleasure was to beallowed to walk in the convent garden.""Yes. You don't know, perhaps, that she is my niece. My poor brother'schild. She was left an orphan at a very early age. Her's is a sad story.But God has been good: she never doubted her vocation, she passed froman innocent childhood to a life dedicated to God. So she has been sparedthe trouble that is the lot of those who live in the world."An accent of past but unforgotten sorrow had crept into her voice; andonce more Evelyn was convinced that she had not, like Veronica, passedfrom innocent childhood into the blameless dream of convent life. Shehad known the world and had renounced it. In the silence that had fallenEvelyn wondered what her story might be, and whether she would ever hearit. But she knew that in the convent no allusion is made to the past,that there the past is really the past."I hope that you will sing for us at Benediction. All the sisters arelonging to hear you. It will be such a pleasure to them.""I shall be very glad ... only I have brought nothing with me. But Idaresay I shall find something among the music you have here.""Sister Mary John will find you something; she is our organist.""And an excellent musician. I noticed her playing.""She has always been anxious to improve the choir, but unfortunatelynone of the sisters except her has any voice to speak of.... You mightsing Gounod's 'Ave Maria' at Benediction; you know it, of course, what abeautiful piece of music it is. But I see that you don't admire it.""Well," Evelyn said, smiling, "it is contrary to all the principles I'vebeen brought up in.""We might walk a little; we are at the end of the summer, and the air isa little cold. You do not mind walking very slowly? I'm forbidden towalk fast on account of my heart."They crossed the sloping lawn, and walking slowly up St. Peter's walk,amid sad flutterings of leaves from the branches of the elms, Evelyntold the Reverend Mother the story of the musical reformation which herfather had achieved. She asked Evelyn if it would be possible to givePalestrina at the convent and they reached the end of the walk. It wasflushed with September, and in the glittering stillness the name ofPalestrina was exquisite to speak. They passed the tall cross standingat the top of the rocks, and the Reverend Mother said, speaking out oflong reflection--"Have I never heard any of the music you sing? Wagner Ihave never heard, but the Italian operas, 'Lucia' and 'Trovatore,' orMozart? Have you never sung Mozart?""Very little. I am what is called a dramatic soprano. The only Italianopera I've sung is 'Norma.' Do you know it?""Yes.""I've sung Leonore--not in 'Trovatore,' in 'Fidelio.'""But surely you admire 'Trovatore'--the 'Miserere,' for instance. Is notthat beautiful?""It is no doubt very effective, but it is considered very common now."Evelyn hummed snatches of the opera; then the waltz from "Traviata.""I've sung Margaret.""Ah."And as she hummed the Jewel Song she watched the Reverend Mother'sface, and was certain that the nun had heard the music on the stage. Butat that moment the angelus bell rang. Evelyn had forgotten theresponses, and as she walked towards the convent she asked the ReverendMother to repeat them once again, so that she might have them by heart.She excused herself, saying how difficult was the observance ofreligious forms for those who live in the world.After dinner she wrote two letters. One was to her father, the other wasto Monsignor, and having directed the letters she imagined the postalarrangement to be somewhat irregular. After Benediction she would askVeronica what time the letters left the convent. And looking across theabyss which separated them, she saw her passionate self-centred past andVeronica's little transit from the schoolroom to the convent. It seemedstrange to her that she never had what might be called a girl friend.But she had arrived at a time when a woman friend was a necessity, andit now suddenly occurred to her that there would be somethingwonderfully sweet and satisfying in the uncritical love of a womanyounger than herself. She felt that the love of this innocent creaturewho knew nothing, who never would know anything, and who therefore wouldsuspect nothing, would help her to forget her past as Monsignor wished.She felt a sympathy awaken in her for her own sex which she had neverknown before, and this yearning was confounded in a desire to be amongthose who knew nothing of her past. Now she was glad that she hadrefrained from taking the Reverend Mother into her confidence, and shewondered how much Monsignor had told her the day they had walked in thegarden; it relieved her to remember that he knew very little except whatshe had told him in confession.Someone knocked. She answered, "Come in." It was Mother Philippa andanother nun."I hope we're not interrupting.... But you're reading, I see.""No, I was thinking;" and glad of the interruption, she let the bookfall on her knees. "Pray come in, Mother Philippa," and Evelyn rose todetain her.The nuns entered very shyly. Evelyn handed them chairs, and as she didso she remarked the tall, angular nun who followed Mother Philippa, andwhose face expressed so much energy."Good afternoon, Miss Innes. I hope you slept well last night, and didnot find your bed too uncomfortable?""Thank you, Mother Philippa. I liked my bed. I slept very well." Evelyndrew two chairs forward, and Mother Philippa introduced Evelyn to SisterMary John. And while she explained that she had heard from the ReverendMother that Miss Innes had promised to sing at Benediction, Sister MaryJohn sat watching Evelyn, her large brown eyes wide open. Her eagernesswas even a little comical, and Evelyn smiled through her growing likingfor this nun. She was unlike any other nun she had seen. Nuns wereusually formal and placid, but Sister Mary John was so irreparablyherself that while the others presented feeble imitations of theReverend Mother's manner, her walk and speech, Sister Mary Johncontinued to slouch along, to cross her legs, to swing her arms, to leanforward and interrupt when she was interested in the conversation; whenshe was not, she did not attempt to hide her indifference. Evelynthought that she must be about eight-and-twenty or thirty. The eyes werebrown and exultant, and the eyebrows seemed very straight and black inthe sallow complexion. All the features were large, but a little of theradiant smile that had lit up all her features when she came forward togreet Evelyn still lingered on her face. Now and then she seemed to growimpatient, and then she forgot her impatience and the smile floated backagain. At last her opportunity came, and she seized it eagerly."I'm quite ashamed, Miss Innes, we sang so badly this morning; ourlittle choir can do better than that.""I was interested; the organ was very well played.""Did you think so? I have not sufficient time for practice, but I lovemusic, and am longing to hear you sing. But the Reverend Mother saysthat you have brought no music with you.""I hear," said Mother Philippa, "that you do not care for Gounod's 'AveMaria.'""If the Reverend Mother wishes me to sing it, I shall be delighted to doso, if Sister Mary John has the music."Sister Mary John shook her head authoritatively, and said that she quiteunderstood that Miss Innes did not approve of the liberty of writing anymelody over Bach's beautiful prelude. Besides, it required a violin. Theconversation then turned on the music at St. Joseph's. Sister Mary Johnlistened, breaking suddenly in with some question regarding Palestrina.She had never heard any of his music; would Miss Innes lend her some?Was there nothing of his that they could sing in the convent?"I do not know anything of his written for two voices. You might playthe other parts on the organ, but I'm afraid it would sound not a littleridiculous.""But have you heard the Benedictine nuns sing the plain chant; theypause in the middle of the verse--that is the tradition, is it not?"Meanwhile Mother Philippa sat forgotten. Evelyn noticed her isolationbefore Sister Mary John, and addressed an observation to her. But MotherPhilippa said she knew nothing about music, and that they were to go ontalking as if she weren't there. But a mere listener is a dead weight ina conversation; and whenever Evelyn's eyes went that way, she could seethat Mother Philippa was thinking of something else; and when shelooked towards Sister Mary John she could see that she was longing to bealone with her. A delightful hour of conversation awaited them if theycould only find some excuse to get away together, and Evelyn looked atSister Mary John, saying with her eyes that the suggestion must comefrom her."If I were to take Miss Innes to the organ loft and show her what musicwe have--don't you think so, Mother Philippa?'"Yes, I think that would be the best thing to do.... I'm sure theReverend Mother would see no objection to your taking Miss Innes to theorgan loft."Mother Philippa did not see the look of relief and delight that passedin Sister Mary John's eyes, and it was Evelyn who had a scruple aboutgetting rid of Mother Philippa."I was so disappointed not to have seen you the day you came here; andwhat made it so hard was that it was first arranged that it was theReverend Mother and I who were to meet you. I had looked forward toseeing you. I love music, and it is seven years since I've spoken toanyone who could tell the difference between a third and a fourth.There's no one here who cares about music."It seemed to Evelyn that the problem of life must have presented itselfto Sister Mary John very much as it presents itself to a woman who issuddenly called to join her husband in India. The woman hates leavingLondon, her friends, and all the habits of life in which she has grownup; but she does not hesitate to give up these things to follow the manshe loves out to India."I don't know why it was settled that Mother Philippa was to meet youinstead of me; it seemed so useless, meeting you meant so little to herand so much to me; I'm always inclined to argue, but that day theReverend Mother's heart was very bad; she had had a fainting fit in theearly morning; we all got up to pray for her.""Yet she was quite cheerful; I never should have guessed.""Mother Philippa and Mother Mary Hilda tried to dissuade her. But shewould see you.""Then it is with her heart disease that the Reverend Mother rules theconvent," Evelyn thought, as she followed Sister Mary John up the spiralstaircase to the organ loft. She looked over the curtained railing intothe church. The watcher knelt there, her head bowed, her habit still assculpture, and Evelyn heard Sister Mary John pulling out her music. Shecould not find what she wanted, and she sat with her legs apart,throwing from side to side piles of old torn music."Never can one find a piece of music when one wants it: I don't know ifyou have noticed that nothing is so difficult to find as a piece ofmusic. Day after day it is under your hands, it would seem as if therewas not another piece in the organ loft, but the moment you want it, ithas disappeared. I don't know how it is.""What are you looking for? Perhaps I can help you.""Well, I was thinking that you might like"--Sister Mary John looked upat Evelyn--"I suppose you can sing B flat, or even C?""Yes, I can sing C;" and Evelyn thought of the last page of the "Dusk ofthe Gods." "But what are you looking for?"Sister Mary John did not answer. She threw the music from side to side,every minute growing more impatient. "It is most strange," she said atlast, looking up at Evelyn. Evelyn smiled. With all her brusque,self-willed ways, Sister Mary John was clearly a lady born and anintelligent woman."I'm afraid I shall not be able to find you anything that you'd care tosing.""Oh, yes, I shall," Evelyn replied encouragingly."It is all such poor stuff. We've no singers here. Do you know, I'venever heard a great singer, and I've often wished to. The only thing Iregret is not having heard a little music before I came here. But I'veheard of Wagner; you sing Wagner, don't you, Miss Innes?""Yes, I sing little else. 'Fidelio'--""Ah, I know some of the music. Do you sing--"Sister Mary John hummed a few bars."Yes, I sing that.""Well, I shall hear you sing to-day. I've been wishing to go to St.Joseph's to hear Palestrina. You were brought up on music. You can singat sight--in the key that it is written in?""Yes, I think so.""But all prima-donnas can do that?""No; on the contrary, I think I'm the only one. Singers on the operaticstage learn their parts at the piano."She could see that to Sister Mary John music was the temptation of herlife, and she imagined that her confession must be a little musicalrecord. She had lost her temper with Sister So-and-So because she couldnot, etc. But time was getting on. If she was to sing that afternoon,she must find something, and seeing that Sister Mary John lingered oversome sheets of music, as if she thought that it presented somepossibility, Evelyn asked her what it was. It was a Mass by Mozart forfour voices, which Sister Mary John had arranged for a single voice."The choir and I sing the melody in unison, and I play the entire Masson the organ."Evelyn smiled, and seeing that the smile distressed the nun, she wassorry."To you, of course, it would sound absurd, it does to me too, but it wasa little change, it was the only thing I could think of. We have somepieces written for two voices, but I can hardly get them sung. I haveto teach the sisters the parts separately. Till they know them by heart,I can't trust them. It is impossible sometimes not to lose one's temper.If we had a few good voices, people would come to hear them, the conventwould be spoken about, and some charitable people would come forward andpay off our mortgages. I've lain awake at night thinking of it; theReverend Mother agrees with me. But in the way of voices we've been asunlucky as we could well be. I've been here eight years--there was one,but she died six years ago of consumption. It is heartbreaking. I playthe organ, I beat the time, and, as I said to them the other day, 'Thereare five of you, and I'm the only one that sings.'"Sister Mary John asked Evelyn if she composed. Evelyn told her that shedid not compose, and remembering Owen's compositions, she hoped thatSister Mary John had not an "O Salutaris" in manuscript."Let me look through the music; we are talking of other things insteadof looking.""So we are.... Let us look." At the bottom of a heap, Sister Mary Johnfound Cherubini's "Ave Maria.""Could you sing this? It is a beautiful piece of music."Evelyn read it over."Yes," she said, "I can sing it, but it wants careful playing; the endis a sort of little duet between the voice and the organ. If you don'tfollow me exactly, the effect will be like this," and she showed what itwould be on the mute keyboard."You haven't confidence in my playing.""Every confidence, Sister Mary John, but remember I don't know thepiece, and it is not easy. I think we had better try it over together.""I should like to very much, but you will not sing with all your voice?""No, we'll just run through it...."The nun followed in a sort of ecstasy, and when they came to what Evelynhad called the duet, she played the beautiful antiphonal music lookingup at the singer. The second time Evelyn was surer of herself, and shelet her voice flow out a little in suave vocalisation, so that she mightjudge of the effect."I told you that I had never heard anyone sing before. If you were oneof us!"Evelyn laughed, and then, catching sight of the nun's eyes fixed veryintently upon her, she spoke of the beauty of the "Ave Maria," and wassurprised that she did not know anything of Cherubini's."Gracious, how the time has gone! That is the first bell for vespers."She hurried away, forgetting all about Evelyn, leaving her to find herway back to her room as best she could. But Evelyn found Sister MaryJohn waiting for her at the bottom of the stairs. She had come back forher, she had just remembered her, and Sister Mary John apologised forher absence of mind, and seemed distressed at her apparent rudeness.They walked a little way together, and the nun explained that it was nother fault; her absence of mind was an inheritance from her father.Everything she had she had inherited from him--"my love of music and myabsence of mind."She was intensely herself, quaint, eccentric, but she was, Evelynreflected, perhaps more distinctly from the English upper classes thanany of the nuns she had seen yet. She had not the sweetness of manner ofthe Reverend Mother, her manners were the oddest; but withal she hadthat refinement which Evelyn had first noticed in Owen, and afterwardsin his friends, that style which is inheritance, which tradition alonecan give. She had spoken of her father, and Evelyn could easily imagineSister Mary John's father--a lord of old lineage dwelling in aneighteenth century house in the middle of a flat park in the Midlands.She could see a piece of artificial lake obtained by the damming of asmall stream; one end full of thick reeds, in which the chatter of wildducks was unceasing. But her family, her past, her name--all was lost inthe convent, in the veil. The question was, had she renounced the world,or had she refused the world? Evelyn could not even conjecture. SisterMary John was outside not only of her experience, but also of herpresent perception of things. Evelyn wondered why one of such markedindividuality, of such intense personal will, had chosen a life the very_raison d'etre_ of which was the merging of the individual will in thewill of the community? Why should one, the essential delight of whoselife was music, choose a life in which music hardly appeared? Was herpiety so great that it absorbed every other inclination? Sister MaryJohn did not strike her as being especially religious. What instinctbehind those brown eyes had led her to this sacrifice? Apparently atpains to conceal nothing, Sister Mary John concealed the essential.Evelyn could even imagine her as being attractive to men--that radiantsmile, the beautiful teeth, and the tall, supple figure, united to thatdistinct personality, would not have failed to attract. God did not gether because men did not want her, of that Evelyn was quite sure.There were on that afternoon assembled in the little white chapel of thePassionist Sisters about a dozen elderly ladies, about nine or ten stoutladies dressed in black, who might be widows, and perhaps three or fourspare women who wore a little more colour in their hats; these might bespinsters, of ages varying between forty and fifty-five. Amid theseEvelyn was surprised and glad to perceive three or four young men; theydid not look, she thought, particularly pious, and perceiving that theywore knickerbockers, she judged them to be cyclists who had ridden upfrom Richmond Park. They had come in probably to rest, having lefttheir machines at the inn. Even though she was converted, she did notwish to sing only to women, and it amused her to perceive that somethingof the original Eve still existed in her. But if any one of these youngmen should happen to have any knowledge of music, he could hardly failto notice that it was not a nun who was singing. He would ride awayastonished, mystified; he would seek the explanation of the mystery, andwould bring his friend to hear the wonderful voice at the PassionistConvent. By the time he came again she would be gone, and his friendwould say that he had had too much to drink that afternoon at the inn.They would not be long in finding an explanation; but should therehappen to be a journalist there, he would put a paragraph in the papers,and all sorts of people would come to the convent and go awaydisappointed.She looked round the church, calculating its resonance, and thought withhow much of her voice she should sing so as to produce an effectwithout, however, startling the little congregation. The sermon seemedto her very long; she was unable to fix her attention, and though allFather Daly said was very edifying, her thoughts wandered, and wonderfullegends and tales about a voice heard for one week at the WimbledonConvent thronged her brain, and she invented quite a comic littleepisode, in which some dozen or so of London managers met atBenediction. She thought that their excuses one to the other would bevery comic.She was wearing the black lace scarf instead of a hat; it went well withthe grey alpaca, and under it was her fair hair; and when she got up togo to the organ loft after the sermon, she felt that the old ladies andthe bicyclists were already wondering who she was. Her involuntarylevity annoyed her, and she forced a certain seriousness upon herself asshe climbed the steep spiral staircase."So you have found your way ... this is our choir," and she introducedEvelyn to the five sisters, hurrying through their names in a lowwhisper. "We don't sing the 'O Salutaris,' as there has been exposition.We'll sing this hymn instead, and immediately after you'll sing the 'AveMaria'; it will take the place of the Litany."Then the six pale voices began to wail out the hymn, wobbling andfluctuating, the only steady voice being Sister Mary John's. Thoughmortally afraid of the Latin syllables, Evelyn seconded Sister MaryJohn's efforts, and the others, taking courage, sang better than usual.Sister Mary John turned delighted from the organ, and, her eyes brightwith anticipation, said, "Now."She played the introduction, Evelyn opened her music. The moment was oneof intense excitement among the five nuns. They had gathered together ina group. The great singer who had saved their convent (had it not beenfor her they would have been thrown back upon the world) was going tosing. Evelyn knew what was passing in their minds, and was a littlenervous. She wished they would not look at her so, and she turned awayfrom them. Sister Mary John played the chord, and the voice began.Owen often said that if Evelyn had two more notes in her voice she wouldhave ranked with the finest. She sang from the low A, and she could takethe high C. From B to B every note was clear and full, one as the other;he delighted especially in the middle of her voice; for one wholeoctave, and more than an octave, her voice was pure and sonorous and asromantic as the finest 'cello. And the romance of her voice transpiredin the beautiful Beethoven-like phrase of Cherubini's "Ave Maria." Itwas as if he had had her voice singing in his ear while he was writing,when he placed the little grace notes on the last syllable of Maria. Thephrase rose, still remaining well within the medium of her voice, andthe same interval happened again as the voice swelled up on the word"plena." In the beautiful classical melody her voice was like a 'celloheard in the twilight. In the music itself there is neither belief norprayer, but a severe dignity of line, the romance of columns andperistyle in the exaltation of a calm evening. Very gradually she pouredher voice into the song, and her lips seemed to achieve sculpture. Thelines of a Greek vase seemed to rise before the eye, and the voiceswelled on from note to note with the noble movement of the bas-reliefdecoration of the vase. The harmonious interludes which Sister Mary Johnplayed aided the excitement, and the nuns, who knelt in two grey lines,were afraid to look up. In a remote consciousness they feared it was notright to feel so keenly; the harmonious depth of the voice entered theirvery blood, summoning visions of angel faces. But it was an old man witha white beard that Veronica saw, a hermit in the wilderness; she wasbringing him vestments, and when the vision vanished Evelyn was singingthe opening phrase, now a little altered on the words Santa Maria.There came the little duet between the voice and the organ, in which anywant of precision on the part of Sister Mary John would spoil the effectof the song; but the nun's right hand answered Evelyn in perfectconcord. And then began the runs introduced in the Amen in order toexhibit the skill of the singer. The voice was no longer a 'cello, deepand resonant, but a lonely flute or silver bugle announcing some joyousreverie in a landscape at the close of day. The song closed on thekeynote, and Sister Mary John turned from the instrument and looked atthe singer. She could not speak, she seemed overpowered by the music,and like one more dreaming than waking, and sitting half turned round onher seat, she looked at Evelyn."You sing beautifully," she said. "I never heard singing before."And she sat like one stupefied, still hearing Evelyn's singing in herbrain, until one of the sisters advanced close and said, "Sister, wemust sing the 'Tantum ergo.'""Of course we must. I believe if you hadn't reminded me I should haveforgotten it. Gracious! I don't know what it will sound like aftersinging like that. But you'll lead them?"Evelyn hummed the plain chant under her breath, afraid lest she shouldextinguish the pale voices, and surprised how expressive the antiquechant was when sung by these etiolated, sexless voices. She had neverknown how much of her life of passion and desire had entered into hervoice, and she was shocked at its impurity. Her singing sounded likesilken raiment among sackcloth, and she lowered her voice, feeling it tobe indecorous and out of place in the antique hymn. Her voice, she felt,must have revealed her past life to the nuns, her voice must haveshocked them a little; her voice must have brought the world before themtoo vividly. For all her life was in her voice, she would never be ableto sing this hymn with the same sexless grace as they did. Her voicewould be always Evelyn Innes--Owen Asher's mistress.The priest turned the Host toward them, and she saw the two long rows ofgrey-habited nuns leaning their veiled heads, and knew that this was themoment they lived for, the essential moment when the body which theRedeemer gave in expiation of the sins of the world is revealed.Evelyn's soul hushed in awe, and all that she had renounced seemed verylittle in this moment of mystery and exaltation."What am I to say, Miss Innes? I shall think of this day when I am anold woman. But you'll sing again before you leave?""Yes, sister, whenever you like.""When I like? That would be all day. But I did follow you in the duet, Iwas so anxious. I hope I did not spoil it?""I was never better accompanied. You made no mistake."As they passed by her the other nuns thanked her under their breath. Shecould see that they looked upon her as a providence sent by God to savethem from being cast back upon the world they dreaded, the world fromwhich they had fled. But all this extraordinary drama, this intensity offeeling, remained inarticulate. They could only say, "Thank you, MissInnes; it was very good of you to come to sing for us." It was theirvery dumbness that made them seem so wonderful. It was the dumbness ofthese women--they could only speak in prayer--it was that that overcameher. But the Reverend Mother was different. Evelyn listened to her,thinking of nothing but her, and when the Reverend Mother left her,Evelyn moved away, still under the spell of the authoritative sweetnesswhich her presence and manner exhaled. But the Reverend Mother was onlya part of a scheme of life founded on principles the very opposite tothose on which she had attempted to construct her life. Even in singingthe "Ave Maria," she had not been able to subdue her vanity. Herpleasure in singing it had in a measure sprung out of the somewhat meandesire to proclaim her superiority over those who had attained thehighest plane by renouncing all personal pride. They had proclaimedtheir superiority in their obeisance. It was in giving, not inreceiving, praise that we rise above ourselves. This was the lesson thatevery moment of her convent life impressed upon her. Her thoughts wentback to the Reverend Mother, and Evelyn thought of her as of some womanwho had come to some terrible crisis in her worldly life--some crisisviolent as the crisis that had come in her own life. The Reverend Mothermust have perceived, just as she had done, as all must do sooner orlater, that life out of the shelter of religion becomes a sort ofnightmare, an intolerable torture. Then she wondered if the ReverendMother were a widow--that appeared to her likely. One who had sufferedsome great disaster--that too seemed to her likely. She had been anambitious woman. Was she not so still? Is a passion ever obliterated? Isit not rather transformed? If she had been personally ambitious, she wasnow ambitious only for her convent: her passion had taken anotherdirection. And applying the same reasoning to herself, she seemed to seea future for herself in which her love passions would become transformedand find their complete expressions in the love of God.The Reverend Mother again addressed her, and Evelyn considered what ageshe might be. Between sixty and seventy in point of years, but sheseemed so full of intelligence, wisdom and sweetness that she did notsuggest age; one did not think of her as an old woman. Her slight figurestill retained its grace, and though a small woman, she suggested a tallone; and the moment she spoke there was the voice which drew you likesilk and entangled you as in a soft winding web. Evelyn smiled a littleas she listened, for she was thinking how the Reverend Mother as a youngwoman must have swayed men. Presumably at one time it had pleased her tosway men's passion, or at least it pleased Evelyn's imagination to thinkit had. Not that she thought the Reverend Mother had ever been anythingbut a good woman, but she had been a woman of the world, and Evelynattributed no sin to that. Even the world is not wholly bad; theReverend Mother and Monsignor owed their personal magnetism to theworld. Without the world they would have been like Father Daly andMother Philippa--holy simplicities. She looked at the quiet nun, and hersimple good nature touched her. Evelyn went toward her. Sister Mary Johnbroke into the conversation so often that the Reverend Mother had onceto check her."Sister Mary John, we hope that Miss Innes will sing to-morrow and everyday while she is with us. But she must do as she likes, and thesemusical questions are not what we are talking about now."But Sister Mary John was hardly at all abashed at this reproof. She wasclearly the only one who stood in no awe of the Reverend Mother.They were sitting on the terrace, and a mauve sunset faded in the greysky. There was a strange wistfulness in the autumn air and in the dimgarden where the gentle nuns were taking their recreation. There was asubtle harmony in the grey habits and floating veils; they blended andmingled with the blue mist that was rising among the trees. And a palelight fell across the faded lawns, and Evelyn looked into the light, andfelt the pang that the passing of things brings into the heart. Thisspectacle of life seemed to her strangely pathetic, and it seemed tomean something which eluded her, and which she would have given a greatdeal to have been able to express. Music alone could express theyearning that haunted her heart, the plaint of the Rhine Maidens was thenearest to what she felt, and she began to sing their song. Sister MaryJohn asked her eagerly what she was singing. She would have told her,but the Reverend Mother grew impatient with Sister Mary John."You must be introduced to Mother Mary Hilda, our novice mistress, thenyou will know all the mothers except our dear Mother Christina, who isquite an invalid now, and rarely leaves her cell."On St. Peter's path a little group of nuns were walking up and down,pressing round a central figure. They were faint grey shadows, and theirmeaning would not be distinguished in the violet dusk. It was like ahalf-effaced picture in which the figures are nearly lost in thebackground; their voices, however, sounded clear, and their laughter wasmysterious and far distant, yet distinct in the heart. Evelyn againbegan to hum the plaint of the Rhine Maidens. But the voices of thenovices were more joyous, for they, Evelyn thought, have renounced bothlove and gold. The Reverend Mother clapped her hands to attractattention, and one of the novices, it was Sister Veronica, ran to them."Ask Mother Mary Hilda to come and speak to me, Veronica.""Yes, Reverend Mother;" and Veronica ran with the message without oncelooking at Evelyn. Mother Mary Hilda crossed the lawn toward them, andEvelyn noticed her gliding, youthful walk. She was younger than theprioress or even the sub-prioress. And she had that attractiveyouthfulness of manner which often survives in the cloister after middleage."Here is Miss Innes," said the prioress; "I know you wished to make heracquaintance.""Yes, indeed."Evelyn noticed the bright eyes and the small, clearly cut nose and thepointed chin, but her liveliest sensation was of Mother Hilda's hand; sosmall was it and soft that it seemed like a little crushed bird inEvelyn's hand, and Evelyn did not think that hers was a large hand."I am sure, Miss Innes, you feel that you have been thanked sufficientlyfor all you have done for us, but you'll forgive us if we feel that wecannot thank you often enough. Your singing at Benediction to-day was agreat pleasure to us all. Whose 'Ave Maria' was it, Miss Innes?"Evelyn told them, and thinking it would interest the nuns, she admittedthat her father would not allow it to be sacred music. This led theconversation on to the question of Palestrina, and how the old music hadrescued the Jesuits from their pecuniary embarrassments. A casualmention of Wagner showed her that the Reverend Mother was interested,and she said that she might sing them Elizabeth's prayer. Evelyn spokeof the Chorale in the first act of the "Meistersinger," and this led herinto quite a little account of the music she sang on the stage. Itpleased her to notice the different effect of her account of her art onthe four nuns. The conversation, she could see, carried the prioressback into the past, but she put aside these memories of long ago andaffected a polite interest in the stage. Mother Philippa listened as shemight to a story, too far removed from her for her to be more thanvaguely interested; Sister Mary John listened in the hopes that Evelynwould illustrate her experience with some few bars of the music--withher it was the music and nothing else; Mother Mary Hilda listened veryprettily, and Evelyn noticed that it was she who asked the mostquestions. Mother Mary Hilda was the most fearless, and showed the leastdread in the conversation. Yet for no single moment did Evelyn thinkthat she was the worldliest of the four nuns. Evelyn thought thatprobably she was the least. Her trivial utterances were the necessity ofthe unimportant moment, and she seemed to bring to them theenlightenment of her own vivid faith. The holiness that shone out of hereyes inspired the calm, tender smile, and was in her whole manner. "Shespeaks," Evelyn thought, "of worldly things without affectation, but howclear it is that they lie outside, far outside, of her real life."Evelyn was saying that it was a long while since she had sung any sacredmusic, and, referring to the difference of the rule in France and inEngland, she mentioned that in Paris the opera singers frequently sangin the churches."It must be hard on Catholics with beautiful voices like yours that theymay not be allowed to sing in church choirs, for there can be nothingso delightful as to bring a great gift to God's service."It was the prioress who broke off the conversation, to Evelyn's regret."Mother Hilda, I am afraid we are forgetting your young charges.""Yes, indeed, I must run back to my children. Good-bye, Miss Innes, I amso glad that you have come to us;" and the warm, soft clasp of thelittle hand was to Evelyn a further assurance of friendly welcome.CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVEShe was ashamed not to be able to follow the Office in chapel, so at theReverend Mother's suggestion she consented to employ part of her longconvent leisure in taking lessons in Latin. Mother Mary Hilda was to beher instructress.The library was a long, rather narrow room, once the drawing-room of theGeorgian mansion. Only a carved Adams' chimney-piece, now painted overin imitation of oak remained of its former adornment; the tall windowswere eighteenth century, and with that air they looked upon the terrace.The walls had been lined by the nuns with plain wooden shelves, and uponthem were what seemed to be a thousand books, every one in a grey linenwrapper, with the title neatly written on a white label pasted on theback. Evelyn's first thought was of the time it must have taken to coverthem, but she remembered that in a convent time is of no consequence. Ifa thing can be done better in three hours than in one, there is noreason why three hours should not be spent upon it. She had noticed,too, that the sisters regarded the library with a little air of demurepride. Mother Mary Hilda had told her that the large tin boxes werefilled with the convent archives. There were piles of unboundmagazines--the _Month_ and the _Dublin Review_. There was a ponderouswriting-table, with many pigeon-holes; Evelyn concluded it to be thegift of a wealthy convert, and she turned the immense globe which showedthe stars and planets, and wondered how the nuns had become possessed ofsuch a thing, and how they could have imagined that it could ever be ofany use to them. She grew fond of this room, and divided her timebetween it and the garden. It had none of the primness of the conventparlour, which gave her a little shiver every time she entered it. Inthe further window there stood a deep-seated, venerable arm-chair,covered in worn green leather, the one comfortable chair, Evelyn oftenthought, in the convent. And in this chair she spent many hours, eitherlearning to construe the Office with Mother Mary Hilda, or reading byherself. The investigation of the shelves was an occupation, and thetime went quickly, taking down book after book, and she seemed topenetrate further into the spirit of the convent through the medium ofthe convent books.The light literature of the convent were improving little tales ofconversion, and edifying stories of Catholic girls who decline to enterinto mixed marriages, and she thought of the novices reading thisartless literature on Sunday afternoons. There were endless volumes ofmeditations, mostly translations from the French, full of Gallicisms andparenthetical phrases, and Evelyn often began a paragraph a second time;but in spite of her efforts to control her thoughts they wandered, andher eyes, lost in reverie, were fixed on the sunny garden.She returned the volumes to the shelves, and remembering Mother MaryHilda's recommendation, she took down a volume of Faber's works. Shefound his effusive, sentimental style unendurable; and had turned to goto her room for one of the books she had brought with her when her eyeslighted upon Father Dalgairn's _Frequent Communion_. The father'saccount of the various customs of the Church regarding theadministration of the Sacrament--the early rigorism of the Africanfathers, and the later rigorism of the Jansenists at once interestedher, and, lifting her eyes from the book, she remembered that theSacrament had always been the central light around which the spiritualbelief of the church had revolved. Her instinctive religion had alwaysbeen the Sacrament. When Huxley and Darwin and Spencer had underminedthe foundations of her faith, and the entire fabric of revelation wasshowering about her, her belief in the Divine Presence had remained,burning like a lamp, inviolate among the debris of a temple. She hadnever been able to resist the Sacrament. She had put her belief in themystery of transubstantiation to the test, and when the sanctus bellrang, her head had solemnly bowed; softer than rose leaves orsnowflakes, belief had rained down upon her choked heart. She had neverbeen able to reason about the Divine Presence--she felt it. She hadbelieved whether she willed it or not. Owen's arguments had made nodifference. Her desire of the Sacrament had more than once altered thecourse of her life, and that she should have unconsciously wandered backto the Passionist Convent, a convent vowed to Perpetual Adoration,seemed to her to be full of significance.Father Dalgairn's book had made clear to her that wherever she went andwhatever she did she would always believe in the Divine Presence. Hisbook had discovered to her the instinctive nature of her belief in theSacrament, but it had not widened her spiritual perceptions, still lessher artistic: the delicious terror and irresistible curiosity which sheexperienced on opening St. Teresa's _Book of Her Life_ she had neverexperienced before. It was like re-birth, being born to a newexperience, to a purer sensation of life. It was like throwing open thedoor of a small, confined garden, and looking upon the wide land of theworld. It was like breathing the wide air of eternity after that of aclose-scented room. She knew that she was not capable of such pureecstasy, yet it seemed to her very human to think and feel like this;and the saint's holy rapture seemed as natural--she thought for amoment--even more natural, even more truly human than the rapture whichshe had found in sinful love.Before she had read a dozen pages, she seemed to know her like her ownsoul, though yet unaware whether the saint lived in this century or adozen centuries ago. For all she said about the material facts of herlife St. Teresa might be alive to-day and in England. She lived inaspiration, out of time and place; and like one who, standing upon ahill top, sees a bird soaring, a wild bird with the light of the heavensupon its wings, Evelyn seemed to see this soul waving its wings in itsflight towards God. The soul sang love, love, love, and heaven wasoverflowed with cries for its Divine Master, for its adorable Master,for its Bridegroom-elect.The extraordinary vehemence and passion, the daring realism of St.Teresa reminded Evelyn of Vittoria. She found the same unrestrainedpassionate realism in both; she thought of Belasquez's early pictures,and then of Ribera. Then of Ulick, who had told her that the greatartist dared everything. St. Teresa had dared everything. She had daredeven to discriminate between the love of God the Father and God the Son.It was God the Father that inspired in her the highest ecstasy, the mostcomplete abandonment of self. In these supreme moments the human form ofJesus Christ was a hindrance, as in a lower level of spiritualexaltation it was a help."The moment my prayer began to pass from the natural to thesupernatural, I strove to obliterate from my soul every physicalobstacle. To lift my soul up, to contemplate, I dared not; aware of myimperfection it seemed over bold. Nevertheless I knew the presence ofGod to be about me, and I tried to gather myself in him. And nothingcould then induce me to return to the sacred humanity of the Saviour."But how touching is the saint's repentance for this infidelity to theDivine Bridegroom."O Lord of my soul, of all my goods, Jesus crucified, I shall neverremember without pain that I once thought this thing. I shall think ofit as a great treason, and I stand convicted before the Good Master; andthough it proceeded from my ignorance, I shall never expiate it withtears."Just as every variation of habit, of fashion is noticeable to those wholive outside themselves, so the changes and complexities in the life ofthe soul are perceived by them who live within themselves. The saintrelates how for many months she refrained from prayer, and as we knowthat prayer was the source of all her joy, a joy touching ecstasy, oftenabove the earth and resplendent with vision, we can imagine the anguishthat these abstinences must have caused her."To destroy confidence in God the Demon spread a snare, his mostinsidious snare. He persuaded me that owing to my imperfections I couldnot, without being wanting in humility, present myself in prayer to God.This caused me such anguish that for a year and a half I refrained. Forat least a year, for the six months following I am not sure of mymemory. Unfortunate one, what did I do! By my own act I plunged myselfin hell without demons being about to drag me there."This scruple is followed by others. The saint suspects the entireholiness of her joy in prayer, and she asks if these transports, theseravishments, these moments in which she lies exhausted in the arms ofthe Beloved Bridegroom, were contrived by the Demon or if they weregranted to her by God. Her anxiety is great, and men learned in holydoctrine are consulted. They incline to the belief that her visionsproceed from God, and encourage her to persevere. Then she cries to herDivine Master, to the Lord of her soul, to her adorable Master, to theadorable Bridegroom."Cannot we say of a soul to whom God extends this solicitude and thesedelicacies of love that the soul has made for our Lord a bed of rosesand lilies, and that it is impossible that this adorable Master will notcome, though he may delay, and take his delight with her."This saint, in whom religion was genius, was one of Ulick's mostunqualified admirations. He never spoke of her that his voice did notacquire an accent of conviction, or without alluding to the line of anold English poet, who had addressed her:  'Oh, thou undaunted daughter of desires.'She recalled with a smile his contempt of the Austins and the Eliots,those most materialistic writers, he would say, whose interest inhumanity and whose knowledge of it is limited to social habits andcustoms. But St. Teresa he placed among the highest writers, among thegreat visionaries. "Her desire sings," he said, "like the sea and thewinds, and it breaks like fire about God's feet." He had said that thesoul that flashed from her pages was more intense than any soul inShakespeare or Balzac. "They had created many, she but one incomparablesoul--her own, and in surging drift of vehement aspiration, and inrecession of temporal things we hear the singing of the stars, thebeating of the eternal pulse."On Friday she had finished the autobiography, and before going into thegarden she took down another of the saint's works, _The Way ofPerfection_, intending to look through it in some sunny corner.She had slipped easily into the early hours of the convent. Afterbreakfast she had the morning to herself, and she divided it between thelibrary and the garden. The leaves were beginning to fall, and in thethinning branches there seemed to be an appearance of spring. From St.Peter's walk she strolled into the orchard, and then into the piece ofuncultivated ground at the end of it. Some of the original furze bushesremained, and among these a streamlet trickled through the long grasses,and following it she found that it led her to the fish pond in theshrubbery, at the back of St. Peter's walk. There was there a pleasant,shady place, where she could sit and read. She stood for a momentwatching the fish. They were so tame that they would take the bread fromthe novices' hands. She had brought some bread, but she had to throw itto them. She divided it amongst them, not forgetting to favour thelittle ones, and she thought it strange that they could distinguish herfrom the novices. That much they knew of the upper air. The fish watchedher out of their beady eyes, stirring in their dim atmosphere with astrange, finny motion.At that hour of the day the sun was warm enough to sit out; the littleshiver in the air was not unpleasant; and sitting on the garden bench,she opened her book in a little tremor of excitement. Her thoughtsfluttered, and she strove to imagine what book the saint could havewritten to justify so beautiful a title. Her expectations were realised.The character of the book is clearly defined in the first pages: sheperceived it to be a complete manual of convent life, a perfectcompendium of a nun's soul. On its pages lay that shadowy, evanescentand hardly apprehensible thing--the soul of a nun, only the soul, not aword regarding her daily life: any mother-abbess could have written sucha materialistic book: St. Teresa, with the instinct of her genius,addressed herself to the task which none but she could fulfil--theevolution of a nun's soul. And as Evelyn read she marked the passagesthat specially caught her attention.     "Do not imagine, my daughters, that it is useless to pray, as you     are constantly praying, for the defenders of the Church: Have a     care lest you should share the opinion of certain folk to whom it     seems hard that they should not pray much oftener for themselves.     Believe me that no prayer is better or more profitable than that of     which I am speaking. Perhaps you fear that it will not go to     diminish the pains which you will suffer in purgatory: I answer     that such prayer is too holy and too pleasing to God to be useless.     Even if the time of your expiation should be a little longer--well,     let it be so.""Oh, to be good like that," she thought. And her soul raised its eyesin a little shy emulation.... A few pages further on she read--     "That all may take heed. For neglect of this counsel a nun may find     herself in an entanglement from which she may not find strength to     free herself. And then, great God! What feebleness, what puerile     complaisances this particular friendship may not be the source. It     is impossible to say what number, none but an eye-witness may     believe. They are but trifles, and I see no reason for specifying     them here. I merely add: in whosoever it is found it is an evil, in     a superior it is a plague spot....     "An excellent remedy is to be together only at those times enjoined     by the rule, on other occasions to refrain from speech, as is now     our custom, and to live separately each in her cell as the rule     ordains. And, although it be a praiseworthy custom to unite for     work in a community room, I desire that the nuns of the convent of     St. Joseph shall be freed from this custom, for it is much easier     to keep silence if each works in her cell. Moreover, it is of the     first importance to accustom oneself to solitude, in order to     advance oneself in prayer; and as prayer should be the mortar of     this monastery, we should cherish all that which increases the     spirit in us."Glancing down the pages, her eyes were arrested by a passage of evenmore subtle, more penetrating wisdom.     "Would you know a certain sign, my daughters, by which you may     judge of your progress in virtue? Let each one look within herself     and discover if she believes herself to be the unworthiest of you     all, and if for the benefit of the others she makes it visible by     her actions that she really thinks that this is so, that is the     certain sign of spiritual advancement, and not delight in prayer,     nor ravishment, nor visions, and such like favours which God grants     to souls when he is so pleased. We shall only know the value of     such favours in the next world. It is not so with     humility--humility is a money which is always current, it is safely     invested capital, a perpetual income; but extraordinary favours are     money which is lent for a time and may at any moment be called in.     I repeat, our true treasure is profound humility, great     mortification, and an obedience which, seeing God in the superior,     submits to his every order."The saint's delicate yet virile perception, and her power of expressingthe shadowy and evanescent, filled Evelyn with admiration; and the saintappeared to her in the light of a great novelist; she wondered if Balzachad ever read these pages.     "The best remedy, in my opinion, that a nun can employ to conquer     the imperfect affection which she still bears her parents, is to     abstain from seeing them until by patient prayer she has obtained     from God the freedom of her soul; when she is so disposed that     their visit is a cross, let her see them by all means. For then she     will bring good to their souls, and do no harm to her own."This seemed not a little grim. But how touching is the personalconfession which appears on the following page.     "My parents loved me extremely, according to what they said, and I     loved them in a way that did not allow them to forget me.     Nevertheless I have seen from what has happened to me, and what has     happened to other nuns, how little we may count upon their     affection for us."The unselfishness of such conduct seemed open to doubt. Butunselfishness is a word that none may speak without calling intoquestion the entire conduct of his or her life. Evelyn remembered thatshe had left her father for the sake of her voice, and that she hadrefused to marry Owen because marriage, especially marriage with Owen,did not seem compatible with her soul's safety. Looked at from a certainside, her life did seem self-centred, but allowance, she thought, mustbe made for the difficulties--the entanglements in which the first falsestep had involved her. But in any case she must not question theefficacy of prayer, that was a dogma of the Church. The mission of thecontemplative orders is to pray for those who do not pray forthemselves, and if we believe in the efficacy of prayer, we need notscruple to leave our parents to live in a monastery where, by ourprayers, we held them to eternal salvation. We leave them for a littlewhile, but only that we may live with them for ever.     "Believe me, my dear sisters, if you serve him well you will not     find better parents than those the Divine Master sends you. I know     that it is even so.""What beauty there is in her sternness," Evelyn thought.     "I repeat that those whose trend is toward worldly things and who     do not make progress in virtue, shall leave this monastery; should     she persist in remaining a nun let her enter another convent; for     if she doesn't she will see what will happen to her. Nor must she     complain about me; nor accuse me of not having make known to her     the practical life of the monastery I founded. If there is an     earthly paradise it is in this house, but only for souls who desire     nothing but to please God, who have no thought for themselves; for     these the life here is infinitely agreeable."This passage is one of the very few in which appears the wise, practicalwoman, the founder of an order and of many monasteries, who lived side byside in the same body, the constant associate of the lyrical saint.Evelyn tried to picture her to herself, and two pictures alternated inher thoughts. She saw deep, eager, passionate eyes, and a frail,exhausted body borne along easily by the soul, and doing the work of theunconquerable soul. In the second picture, there were the same consumingeyes, the same wasted body, but the expression was quite different. Thesaint's manner was the liveliest, happiest manner, and Evelyn thought ofthe privilege of such companionship, and she envied those who had walkedwith her, hearing her speak.The little pond at her feet was full of fair reflections of the sky andtrees, and the idea of convent life lay on the pages of the book even asfair. In itself it was disparate and vague, but on the pages of the bookit floated clear and distinct. She asked if any of the Wimbledon nunslived a life of that intense inward rapture which St. Teresa deemedessential if a sister were to be allowed to remain in the convent of St.Joseph at Avila, and the coincidence of the names gave her pause. Thisconvent's patron saint was St. Joseph, and she sought for someresemblance between the Reverend Mother and St. Teresa. She wondered ifshe, Evelyn, were a nun, towards which of the nuns would her personalsympathies incline: would she love better Sister Veronica or Sister MaryJohn? It might be Mother Mary Hilda. It would be one of the three. Therewas not one among the others likely to interest her in the least. Shetried to imagine this friendship: it assumed a vague shape and thendissolved in the distance. But would the Reverend Mother tolerate thisfriendship, or would it be promptly cut down to the root according tothe advice of St. Teresa?Her thoughts pursued their way, now and then splashing as they leapedout of the soul's dimness. Only the splashing of the fish broke thestillness of the garden, and startled at a sudden gurgling sound, sherose, in time to see a shadowy shape sinking with a motion of fins amidthe weeds. That she should be living in a convent, that she should haverepented of her sins, that the fish should leap and fall back withstrange, gurgling sound, filled her with wonderment. The vague autumnblue expressed some vague yearning, some indistinct aspiration; the airwas like crystal, the leaves were falling.... We have perceptions of theouter forms of things, but that is all we know of them. The only thingwe are sure of is what is in ourselves. We know the difference betweenright and wrong. She stood for a long time at the edge of the fish pond,gazing into the vague depths. Then she walked, exalted, overcome by themystery of things. She seemed to walk upon air, the world was a-thrillwith spiritual significances, all was symbol and exaltation. Her pastlife shrank to a tiny speck, and she knew that she had been happy onlysince she had been in the convent. Ah, that little chapel, haunted byprayers! it breathed prayer, in that chapel contemplation was never faroff. She had prayed there as she had never prayed before, and shewondered if she should attribute the difference in her prayers to thechapel or to herself. She had always felt, in a dumb, instinctive way,that to her at least everything depended on her chastity.... She hadbeen chaste now a long while. The explanation seemed to have come toher. Yes, it is by denial of the sexual instinct that we becomereligious.As she passed through the orchard she caught sight of the strange littleperson whom she had seen in chapel with a pile of prayer books besideher, and who always wore something startlingly blue, whether skirt,handkerchief or cloak. She had met her in the garden before, but she hadhurried away, her eyes fixed on the ground. Mother Philippa had spokenof a Miss Dingle, a simple-minded person who had been sent by her familyto the convent to be looked after by the nuns, and Evelyn concluded thatit must be she. But at that moment other thoughts engaged her attention;and she lingered in the orchard, returning slowly by St. Peter's walk.As she passed the Georgian temple or summer-house, she was taken by adesire to examine it, and there she found Miss Dingle. She was seated onthe floor, engaged, so Evelyn thought, in a surreptitious game ofPatience. That was only how she could account for Miss Dingle'sconsternation and fear at seeing her. But what she had taken for cardswere pious pictures. Evelyn stood in the doorway, and for the first timehad an opportunity of seeing what Miss Dingle was really like. It wasdifficult to say whether her face was ugly or pretty; the features werenot amiss--it was the expression, vague and dim like that of an animal,that puzzled Evelyn."Please let me help you to pick up your pictures." Miss Dingle did notanswer, and Evelyn feared for a moment that she had offended her. "Won'tyou let me help you to pick up your pictures?""Yes," she said, "you may help me to pick them up, but you must be veryquick.""But why must I be quick? Are you in such a very great hurry?"Miss Dingle seemed uncertain of her own thoughts, and to reassure her,Evelyn asked her if she would not like to walk with her in the orchard."Oh," she said, looking at Evelyn shyly--it was a sort of child-likecuriosity, "I dare not go into the orchard to-day.... I brought thesepictures to keep him from me. I know that he is about.""Who is about?""I'm afraid he might hurt me.""But who would hurt you?""Well," she said cautiously, "perhaps he'd be afraid to come near meto-day," and she glanced at her frock. "But I'm sure he's about. Didyou see any one as you came through the furze bushes?""No," Evelyn answered; and trying to conceal her astonishment, she said,"I'm sure there's no one there.""Ah, he knows it would be useless." She glanced again at her frock. "Yousee my blue skirt, that has perhaps frightened him away.""But who has gone away?""Oh, the devil is always about.""But you don't think he would hurt you?"Miss Dingle looked suspiciously at Evelyn, and some dim thought whetherEvelyn was the devil in disguise must have crossed her mind. Butwhatever the thought was, it was but a flitting thought; it passed in amoment, and Miss Dingle said--"But the devil is always trying to hurtus. That is what he comes for.""So that is why you surrounded yourself with pious pictures--to keep himaway?"Miss Dingle nodded."What a nice dress you have on. I suppose you like blue. I always noticeyou wear it.""I wear blue, as much blue as I can, for blue is the colour of theVirgin Mary, and he dare not attack me while I have it on. But I wearsometimes only a handkerchief, sometimes only a skirt, but now that heis about so frequently, I have to dress entirely in blue."Evelyn asked her if she had lived in the convent long, and Miss Dingletold her she had lived there for the last three or four years, but shewould give no precise answer when Evelyn asked if she hoped to become anun, or whether she liked her home or the convent the better."Now," she said, "I must really go and say some prayers in the church."Evelyn offered to accompany her, but she said she was well armed, andshowed Evelyn several rosaries, which in case of need she would wave inhis face.Sister Mary John was digging in the kitchen garden, and Evelyn told herhow she had come upon Miss Dingle in the summer-house surrounded bypious pictures. Leaning on her spade, Sister Mary John looked across thebeds thinking, and Evelyn wondered of what. She said at last that MissDingle thought too much of the devil."We should not waste thoughts on him, all our thoughts should be forGod; there is much more pleasure and profit in such thoughts.""But it does seem a little absurd to imagine that the devil is hidingbehind gooseberry bushes.""The devil is everywhere, temptation is always near."Evelyn saw that the nun did not care for discussion on the subject ofthe devil's objectivity, and in the pause in the conversation shenoticed Sister Mary John's enormous boots. They looked like a man'sboots, and she had a full view of them, for Sister Mary John wore herskirt very short, so that she might be able to dig with greater ease."One of the disadvantages of convent life are the few facilities itaffords for exercise and for music," she added, with her beautifulsmile. "I must have exercise, I can't live without it.... It isextraordinary how differently people are constituted. There is MotherMary Hilda, she had never been for what I should call a good sharp walkin her life, and she does not know what an ache or a pain is."The nun pointed with admiration to the bed which she had dug up thatmorning, and complained of the laziness of the gardener: he had not donethis nor that, but he was such a good man--since he became a Catholic."He and I used to talk about things while we were at work: he said thathe had never had it properly explained to him that there should only beone true religion."Since he became a Catholic, has he not done as much work as he used todo?""No, I'm afraid he has not," Sister Mary John answered. "Indeed, we havebeen thinking of sending him away, but it would be difficult for him toget another Catholic situation, and his faith would be endangered if helived among Protestants."At this moment they were interrupted by a loud caw, and looking round,Evelyn saw the convent jackdaw. The bird had hopped within a few yards,cawing all the while, evidently desirous of attracting their attention.With grey head a-slanted, the bird watched them out of sly eyes. "Pay noattention to him; you'll see what he'll do," said Sister Mary John, andwhile Evelyn waited, a little afraid of the bird who seemingly hadselected her for some purpose of his own, she listened to the story ofhis domestication. He had been hatched out in the hen-house, and hadtamed himself; he had declined to go wild, preferring a sage conventlife to the irregularity of the world. The bird hopped about, feigningan interest in the worms, but getting gradually nearer the two women. Atlast, with a triumphant caw caw, he flew on to Sister Mary John'sshoulder, eyeing Evelyn all the while, clearly bent on making heracquaintance."He'll come on your shoulder presently," said Sister Mary John, andafter some plausive coquetting the bird fluttered on to Evelyn'sshoulder, and Sister Mary John said--"You wait; you'll see what he will do."Evelyn remained quite still, feeling the bird's bill caressing her neck.When she looked round she noticed a wicked expression gathering in hiseyes."Pretend," said Sister Mary John, "not to see him."Evelyn did as she was bidden, and, satisfied that he was no longerobserved, the bird plunged his beak into Evelyn's hair, pulled at it ashard as he could, and then flew away, cawing with delight."That is one of his favourite tricks. We are so fond of him, and soafraid that one day a cat will take him. But there is Mother Mary Hildacoming to fetch you for your lesson."Evelyn bade Sister Mary John good-bye, and went forward to meet herinstructress.The morning seemed full of adventure. There were Miss Dingle, her piouspictures, and the devil behind the gooseberry bushes. There was thepicturesque figure of Sister Mary John, digging, making ready for thewinter cabbages. There was the jackdaw, his story and his humours, andthere was her discovery of the genius of St. Teresa. All these thingshad happened that morning, and Evelyn walked a little elated, her heartfull of spiritual enthusiasm. The project was already astir in her forthe acquisition of an edition in the original Spanish, and she lookedforward to a study of that language as a pleasant and suitableoccupation when she returned to London. She questioned Mother Mary Hildaregarding the merits of the English translation; the French, she said,she could read no longer. She described the worthy father's prose asasthmatic; she laughed at his long, wheezy sentences, but Sister MaryHilda seemed inclined to set store on the Jesuit's pious intentions. Thespirit was more essential than the form, and it was with this argumenton their lips they sat down to the Latin lesson. The nun had opened thebook, and Evelyn was about to read the first sentence, when, raising hereyes and voice, she said--"Oh! Mother Mary Hilda, you've forgotten ... this is my last lesson, Iam going away to-morrow.""Even so it need not be the last lesson; you will come and see us duringthe winter, if you are in London. I don't remember that you said thatyou are going abroad to sing.""Mother Mary Hilda, I'm thinking of leaving the stage."The nun turned the leaves of the breviary, and it seemed to Evelyn thatshe dreaded the intrusion on her thoughts of a side of life the veryexistence of which she had almost succeeded in forgetting; and, feelinga little humbled, Evelyn applied herself to the lesson. And it was justas Mary Hilda's hand closed the books that the door opened and theReverend Mother entered, bringing, it seemed, a new idea and a newconception of life into the room. Mother Mary Hilda gathered up herbooks, and having answered the Reverend Mother's questions in her ownblithe voice, each word illuminated by the happy smile which Evelynthought so beautiful, withdrew like an apparition.The Reverend Mother took the place that Mother Mary Hilda had left, andby her very manner of sitting down, showed that she had come on somespecial intention."Miss Innes, I have come to ask you not to leave to-morrow. If you arenot already tired of our life, it would give us great pleasure if youwould stay with us till Monday.""It is very good of you to ask me to stay, I have been very happy;indeed, I dread returning; it is difficult to return to the life of theworld after having seen what your life is here.""We should only be too happy if you will prolong your stay. You are freeto remain as long as you please.""Thank you, Reverend Mother, it is very good of you, but I cannot livehere in idleness, walking about the garden. What should I do if it wereto rain?""It looks like rain to-day. We have had a long term of fine weather."The nun's old white hand lay on the table, a little crippled, but stilla nervous, determined hand, and the pale, sparkling eyes looked so deepinto the enigma of Evelyn's soul that she lost her presence of mind; herbreath came more quickly, and she hastily remembered that this retreatnow drawing to a close had solved nothing, that the real solution of herlife was as far off as ever."Then I may take it that you will stay with us till Monday. I will notweary you with our repeated thanks for what you have done for us. Youknow that we are very grateful, and shall never forget you in ourprayers, but you will not mind my thanking you again for the pleasureyour singing has given us. You have sung every day. You really have beenvery kind.""I beg of you not to mention it, Reverend Mother; to sing for you andall the dear sisters was a great pleasure to me. I never enjoyed singingin a theatre so much.""I am glad you have enjoyed your stay, Miss Innes. Your room will alwaysbe ready. I hope you will often come to see us.""It will be a great advantage for me to come and stay with you from timeto time." Neither spoke for a time, then Evelyn said, "Reverend Mother,is it not strange that I should have come back to this convent, my oldconvent? I never forgot it. I often wondered if I should come hereagain. When I was here before, it was just as now; it was in a greatcrisis of my life. It was just before I left home, just before I went toParis to learn singing. I don't know if Monsignor has told you that Ihave decided to leave the stage.""Monsignor has entrusted you to me, and I should like to count you asone of my children. All the nuns tell me their little troubles. Though Ihave guessed there must be some great trouble in your life, I shouldlike you to feel that you can tell me everything, if to do so can be theleast help to you."Evelyn's eyes brightened, and, trembling with emotion, she leaned acrossthe table; the Reverend Mother took her hand, and the touch of that oldbenign hand was a delight, and she felt that she must confide her story."I have been several times on the point of speaking to you on thesubject of my past, for if I am to come here again I feel that youshould know something about me. But how to tell it. I had thought ofasking Father Daly to tell you. To-day is your day for confession, butlast week I confessed to Monsignor, and do not like to submit myself toanother director. Do you understand?""Father Daly is an excellent, worthy man, the convent is under thegreatest obligations to him, but I could not recommend him as a veryenlightened director of souls. That is why the nuns tell me all theirtroubles. I should like you to feel that you can tell me everything.""Reverend Mother, if you did not pass from the schoolroom to the conventlike Veronica, you will have heard, you must know, that the life of anopera singer is generally a sinful life. I was very young at the time,only one-and-twenty. I knew that I had a beautiful voice, and that myfather could not teach me to sing. But it was not for self-interest thatI left him; I was genuinely in love with Sir Owen Asher. He was verygood to me; he wanted to marry me; from the world's point of view I wasvery successful, but I was never happy. I felt that I was living asinful life, and we cannot go on doing what we feel to be wrong andstill be happy. Night after night I could not sleep. My conscience keptme awake. I strove against the inevitable, for it is very difficult tochange one's life from end to end, but there was no help for it."Her story, as she told it, seemed to her very wonderful, more wonderfulthan she had thought it was, and she would have liked to have told theReverend Mother all the torment and anguish of mind she had gonethrough. But she felt that she was on very thin ice, and trembledinwardly lest she was shocking the nun.It was exciting to tell that it was her visit to the convent that hadbrought about her repentance; how that very night her eyes had opened atdawn, and she had seen clearly the wickedness of her life, and she couldnot refrain from saying that it was Owen Asher's last letter, in whichhe said that at all hazards he would save her from losing herself inreligion, that had sent her to Monsignor for advice. She noticed heromission of all mention of Ulick, and it seemed to her strange that shecould still be interested in her sins, and at the same time genuinelydetermined to reform her life. The nun sat looking at her, thinking whatanswer she should make, and Evelyn wondered what that answer would be."We shall pray for you.... You will not fall into sin again; it is ourprayers that enable men to overcome their passions. Were it not for ourprayers, God would have long ago destroyed the world. Think of the timesof persecution and sacrilege, when prayer only survived in themonasteries."Evelyn could not but acquiesce: a world without prayer would be anintolerable world, as unendurable to man as to God. But if the ReverendMother's explanation were a true one! If these poor forsakers of theworld were in truth the saviours of the world, without whose aid theworld would have perished long since!When she had gone, Evelyn sat thinking, her head leaned on her hand, hereyes fixed on the distant garden, seeing life from afar, strange anddistant, like reflections in still waters. She could see distant figuresin St. Peter's walk, tending the crosses and the statues of the Virginplaced in nooks, or hanging on the branches. Some four or five nuns wereplaying at ball on the terrace, and in the plaintive autumn afternoon,there was something extraordinarily touching in their simple amusement;and she had, perforce, to feel how much wiser was their childishnessthan the vanity of the world.Ulick had said that their adventure was the same, only their ways weredifferent. He had said that he sought God in art, while she sought himin dogma. But if she accepted dogma, it was only as a cripple accepts acrutch, Catholicism was essential to her, without it she could not walk;but while conforming to dogma, it seemed possible to transcend itsnarrowness, and to attach to every petty belief a spiritualsignificance. It is right that we should acquiesce in these beliefs, forthey are the symbols by which the faith was kept alive and handed down.God leads us by different ways, and though we may prefer to worship Godin the open air, we should not despise him who builds a house forworship. The Real Being is all that we are sure of, for He is in ourhearts, the rest is as little shadows. Ulick had quoted an Easternmystic--'He that sees himself sees God, and in him there is neither Inor thou.'And, reflecting on the significance of these words, she turned withpensive fingers the leaves of _The Way of Perfection_.But she was going back to London on Monday! In London she would meetOwen and all her former life. She knew in a way how she was going toescape him. But her former life was everywhere. She got up and walkedabout the room, then she stood at the window, her hands held behind herback. She was sorely tried, and felt so weak in spirit that she wastempted, or fancied that she was tempted, to go away with Owen in the_Medusa_. Or she might tell him that she would marry him, and so end thewhole matter. But she knew that she would do neither of these things.She knew that she would sacrifice Owen and her career as an opera singerso that she might lead a chaste life. Yet a life of prayer and chastitywas not natural to her; her natural preferences were for lovers andworldly pleasures, but she was sacrificing all that she liked for allthat she disliked. She wondered, quite unable to account for her choiceto herself. Her life seemed very mad, but, mad or sane, she was going tosacrifice Owen and her career. She might sing at concerts, but she didnot think such singing would mean much to her and she thought of thesplendid successful life that lay before her if she remained on thestage. Again she wondered at her choice, seeking in herself the reasonthat impelled her to do what she was doing. She could not say that sheliked living with her father in Dulwich, nor did she look forward togiving singing lessons, and yet that was what she was going to do. Shestrove to distinguish her soul; it seemed flying before her like a bird,making straight for some goal which she could not distinguish. She coulddistinguish its wings in the blue air, and then she lost sight of them;then she caught sight of them again, and they were then no more than atremulous sparkle in the air. Suddenly the vision vanished, and shefound herself face to face with herself--her prosaic self which she hadknown always, and would know until she ceased to know everything. Shewas here in the Wimbledon Convent, and Owen was in London waiting forher. She knew she never would live with him again. But how would shefinally separate herself from him? How would it all come about? Shecould imagine herself yielding, but if she did, it would not last aweek. Her life would be unendurable, and she would have to send himaway. For it is not true that Tannhaeuser goes back to Venus. He whorepents, he who had once felt the ache and remorse of sin, may fall intosin again, but he quickly extricates himself; his sinning is of no longduration! It was the casual sin that she dreaded; at the bottom of herheart she knew that she would never live a life of sin again. But shetrembled at the thought of losing the perfect peace and happiness whichnow reigned in her heart, even for a few hours. Her face contracted inan expression of terror at the thought of finding herself again involvedin the anguish, revolt and despair which she had endured in Park Lane.She recalled the moments when she saw herself vile and loathsome, whenshe had turned from the image of her soul which had been shown to her.Then, to rid herself of the remembrance, she thought of the joy she hadexperienced that morning at hearing in the creed that God's kingdomshall never pass away. Her soul had kindled like a flame, and she hadpraised God, crying to herself, "Thy kingdom shall last for ever andever." It had seemed to her that her soul had acquired kingship over allher faculties, over all her senses, for the time being it had ruled herutterly; and so delicious was its subjection that she had not dared tomove lest she should lose this sweet peace. Her lips had murmured an OurFather, but so slowly that the Sanctus bell had rung before she hadfinished it. Nothing troubled her, nothing seemed capable of troublingher, and the torrent of delight which had flowed into and gentlyoverflowed her soul had intoxicated and absorbed her until it had seemedto her that there was nothing further for her to desire.She remembered that when Mass was over she had risen from her kneeselated, feeling that she had prayed even as the nuns prayed, and she hadretired to her room, striving to restrain her looks and thoughts so thatshe might prolong this union with God.To remember this experience gave her courage. For she could not doubtthat the intention of so special a favour was to convince her that shewould not be lacking in courage when the time came to deny herself toOwen Asher. At the same time she was troubled, and she feared that shewas not quite sincere with herself. She would easily resist him now; butin six months' time, in a year? Besides, she would meet other men; herthoughts even now went out towards one. Ah! wretched weakness,abominable sin! She was filled with contempt for herself, and yet at thebottom of her heart, like hope at the bottom of Pandora's box, there wastolerance. Her sins interested her; she would not be herself withoutthem, and this being so, how could she hope to conquer herself?Saturday and Sunday were monotonous and anxious days. She had begun towonder what was in the newspapers, and she had written to say that hercarriage was to come to fetch her on Monday at three o'clock.There had not been a gleam of light since early morning, only a gentlediffused twilight, and the foliage in the garden was almost human in itslistlessness; a flat grey sky hung about the trees like a shroud. MotherPhilippa and Mother Mary Hilda were walking with her about thegrass-grown drive. They were waiting for the Reverend Mother, who hadgone to fetch a medal for Evelyn. She heard her chestnuts champing theirbits ready to take her back to London, and she could not listen toMother Philippa's conversation, for she had been suddenly taken with adesire to say one last prayer in the chapel. She must say one moreprayer in the presence of the Sacrament. So, excusing herself, she ranback, and, kneeling down, she buried her face in her hands. At once allher thoughts hushed within her; it was like bees entering a hive to makehoney. Prayer came to her without difficulty, without even asking, andshe enjoyed almost five minutes' breathless adoration.The three nuns kissed her, and as the Reverend Mother hung the medalround her neck, she told her that prayers would be constantly offered upfor her preservation. The chestnuts plunged at starting.... If she werekilled now it would not matter. But the horses soon settled down intotheir long swinging trot of ten miles an hour, and all the way to Londonshe reflected. The Reverend Mother had said that the prayers of nuns andmonks were the wall and bastion tower which saved a sinful world fromthe wrath of God, and she thought of the fume of prayer ascending nightand day from this convent as from a censer. Men had always prayed, sincethe beginning of things men had prayed, and as Ulick had said, wisdomwas not invented yesterday. He agreed with the naturalistic philosophersthat force is indestructible, only objecting that the naturalisticphilosophers did not go far enough, the theory of the indestructibilityof force being equally applicable to the spiritual world. The worldexists not in itself, but in man's thought.... Often an intenseevocation has brought the absent one before the seer's eyes, and thatthere are sympathies which transcend and overrule the laws of time andspace hardly admits of doubt. Life is but a continual hypnotism; and thethoughts of others reach us from every side, determining in some measureour actions. It was therefore certain that she would be influenced bythe prayers that would be offered up for her by the convent. Sheimagined these prayers intervening between her and sin, coming to heraid in some moment of perilous temptation, and perhaps in the enddetermining the course of her life.THE END_Printed and Made in Great Britain byThe Crypt House Press LimitedGloucester and London_End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Evelyn Innes, by George Moore*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EVELYN INNES ******** This file should be named 13201.txt or 13201.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/3/2/0/13201/Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Josephine Paolucci and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's The Secret Chamber at Chad, by Evelyn Everett-GreenThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Secret Chamber at ChadAuthor: Evelyn Everett-GreenRelease Date: April 20, 2005 [EBook #15670]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SECRET CHAMBER AT CHAD ***Produced by Martin RobbTHE SECRET CHAMBER AT CHADby Everett Evelyn-Green.Table of ContentsCHAPTER I:    A MYSTERIOUS VISITOR.CHAPTER II:   THE HOUSEHOLD AT CHAD.CHAPTER III:  BROTHER EMMANUEL.CHAPTER IV:   THE TRAVELLING PREACHER.CHAPTER V:    A WARNING.CHAPTER VI:   WATCHED!CHAPTER VII:  AN IMPOSING SPECTACLE.CHAPTER VIII: HIDDEN AWAY.CHAPTER IX:   THE SEARCH.CHAPTER X:    FROM PERIL TO SAFETY.Chapter I: A Mysterious Visitor.The great house at Chad was wrapped in sleep. The brilliant beamsof a June moon illuminated the fine pile of gray masonry with astrong white light. Every castellated turret and twisted chimneystood out in bold relief from the heavy background of the pine woodbehind, and the great courtyard lay white and still, lined by adark rim of ebon shadow.Chad, without being exactly a baronial hall of the first magnitude,was nevertheless a very fine old house. It had been somewhat shornof its pristine glories during the Wars of the Roses. One out ofits original two quadrangles had then been laid in ruins, and hadnever been rebuilt. But the old inner quadrangle still remainedstanding, and made an ample and commodious dwelling house for thefamily of the Chadgroves who inhabited it; whilst the ground whichhad once been occupied by the larger outer quadrangle, with itsfortifications and battlements, was now laid out in terraces andgarden walks, which made a pleasant addition to the familyresidence.The seventh Henry was on the throne. The battle of Bosworth Fieldhad put an end to the long-drawn strife betwixt the houses of Yorkand Lancaster. The exhausted country was beginning to look forwardto a long period of prosperity and peace; and the household at Chadwas one of the many that were rejoicing in the change which hadcome upon the public outlook, and was making the most of thepeaceful years which all trusted lay before the nation.Several changes of some importance had passed over Chad during theprevious century. The wars had made gaps in the ranks of the familyto whom it had always belonged. There had been sundry edicts ofconfiscation--as speedily repealed by the next change in the fateof the day; and more than once the head had been struck down bydeath, and the house and lands had passed either to a minor or tosome other branch of the family. There had been the confusion andstrife betwixt the various branches of the family which was acharacteristic of that age of upheaval and strife; but the presentowner of the estate, Sir Oliver Chadgrove, seemed firmly settled inhis place. He had fought on Henry's side at Bosworth, and had beenconfirmed by that monarch in the possession of the estate of Chad;and since that day none had tried to dispute his claim; nor,indeed, would it have been very easy to do so, as he wasundoubtedly the rightful representative of the older branch of thefamily.A just and kindly man, he was beloved of those about him, and wouldhave been staunchly supported by his retainers had any adversaryarisen against him. His only enemy was the Lord of Mortimer, whoowned Mortimer's Keep, the adjoining property, and had castcovetous eyes on Chad during the stormy days of the late wars, morethan once trying unsuccessfully to step in between the disputingparties and claim it as his own, not by the power of right, but bythat of might alone. However, he had not been successful in thisattempt; and for the past few years there had been a semblance offriendliness between Sir Oliver and his proud and powerfulneighbour.The knight was well aware that the friendliness was more a seemingthan a reality. He was perfectly well acquainted with the rapaciouscharacter of the owner of Mortimer's Keep, and with his covetousdesigns upon Chad. He knew he was a secret foe, always on the watchfor any cause of complaint against him; and he could often feelthat it would take very little to stir up the old jealous strifeand hostility. Still, for the present an armed truce was the orderof the day, and Sir Oliver, knowing his own loyalty, the cleannessof his hands, and the uprightness of his dealings, was not muchafraid that his enemy would ever succeed in ousting him from hislands, or in gaining possession of the fair park and house of Chadfor himself.Sir Oliver was personally liked by the king, which was anotherpoint in his favour. Without being a brilliant ruler like hissuccessors, the seventh Henry had the faculty of choosing men ofparts to place about him, and he had recognized in Sir OliverChadgrove certain qualities which he approved, and of which hewished to avail himself from time to time. So the knight wasfrequently summoned to attend the king, and occasionally his wifewent with him and appeared at court. On this particular bright Junenight, both the master and the mistress were absent, being atWindsor with the king's court; and the three boys--the childrenwith whom Providence had blessed them--were the only members of thefamily sleeping beneath the roof of the great house.The bedchamber of the three boys was a large, bare room looking outacross the wooded park and ridge of hills, through which the littleriver of Chad meandered leisurely. The boys would have preferredthe courtyard for their lookout; but a lover of nature could notbut be struck by the exceeding beauty of the view from this row oflatticed casements. And indeed the green expanse of home-likecountry had its charm even for high-spirited boys; and Edred, thesecond child of the house, often sat for hours together on the widewindow ledge, gazing his fill at the shifting lights and shadows,and dreaming dreams of his own about what he saw.The long room contained three small narrow beds, and very littlefurniture besides, In each of these beds a boy lay sleeping. Themoonlight streaming in through the uncurtained windows illuminatedthe whole room, and showed the curly heads, two dark and one fair,lying on the hard pillows, and shone so straight into the face ofthe eldest boy, that he stirred a little in his sleep, and halfturned round.He was a handsome lad of some eight or nine summers, with regular,strongly-marked features, and dark hair and eyes. The brown handand arm which lay exposed to view showed a muscular developmentthat betokened great strength to come when the boy should be grownto manhood, and the face exhibited a like promise of strength ofwill and character.Bertram Chadgrove, half aroused by the strong light of the moon inhis face, opened his dark eyes sleepily for a few minutes, and thenturned over towards the wall, and prepared to slumber again. Butbefore he had sunk to sleep he became further aroused by a verypeculiar sound in the wall (as it seemed), close to which his bedwas stationed; and instead of drowsing off again, he woke up withall his faculties on the alert, much as a watchdog does, andsitting up in bed he listened with all his ears.Yes; there could be no mistaking it! There was certainly a sound--amuffled, curious sound--within the very wall itself. He pressed hisear against the panel, and his eyes shone brightly in themoonlight."It is some living thing," he whispered to himself. "Methinks it issurely some human thing. Rats can make strange sounds, I know, butnot such sounds as these. A human being, and within the thicknessof the wall! How can such a thing be? I never heard the likebefore. It comes nearer--I hear the groping of hands close besidemine ear. Heaven send it be not a spirit from the other world! Ifear no mortal arm, of flesh and blood, but I desire not to see avisitor from the land of shadows."For a moment the boy's flesh crept on his bones, and the hair ofhis head seemed to rise up from his scalp. The groping of thosephantom hands against the wall just beside him was enough to fillthe stoutest heart with terror, in an age when superstition wasalways rife. He strove to call to his brothers; but his voice wasno more than a whisper, and his throat felt dry and parched.Failing in making himself heard by his companions, he cowered downand drew the clothes right over his head, shivering with fear; andit was several minutes before his native courage came to his aid,and he felt ashamed of this paroxysm of terror."Fie upon me for a white-livered poltroon!" he cried, as the chillsweat of fear ceased to break out upon him, and he rallied hiscourage and his determination."I am no better than a maid! Shame upon me for a coward! I will notcall to Edred and Julian. It shall not be said of me, even by mineown self, that I dared not face even a spirit from the lower worldalone. I will find out what this sound is, and that without thehelp of any other living soul, else shall I despise myselfforever!"And with that resolve hot within him, Bertram threw back hiscoverings and prepared to rise from his bed, when his attention wasarrested by some strange stealthy sounds close against the greatcarved chimney piece, on the same side of the room as his own bed.His brothers slept on the opposite side of the big room. None ofthe sounds which were so astonishing Bertram would penetrate totheir sleeping senses. Had the eldest boy not been awake at thebeginning, he would scarce have heard the sound, so cautious andsoft it was. But this noise was something new. It was like handsfumbling and groping in search of something. Bertram held hisbreath to listen, growing hot and cold by turns. But he drew someof his clothes cautiously towards him, and silently slipped intohis nether garments. He felt that if there were some unseen enemystriving in mysterious fashion to penetrate into this room, hecould better meet him if he were clothed, however scantily, than hecould do as he was; and he had ample time to put on even hisdoublet and hose, and to cover himself up again in bed, with hissmall poniard closely held in his hand, before there was anyfurther development of that strange night's drama which he was sobreathlessly watching.That something or somebody was seeking to find entrance into theroom, he could not doubt for a moment; but, on the other hand, itseemed an incredible surmise, because the wall along which theunknown visitor had plainly felt his way was an outside wall, andif there really were any person thus moving, he must be walkingalong some secret passage in the thickness of the wall itself.Such a thing was not impossible. Bertram knew of more than one suchpassage contrived in the thickness of the wall in his ancient home,and all the family were acquainted with a certain secret hidingplace that existed, cleverly contrived in the rambling oldbuilding, which, with its various levels and its wilderness ofchimneys, might well defy detection, even with the most skilledsearch. But the boy knew of no such passage or chamber inconnection with their sleeping room, and he was sure his parentsdid not know of one either, or any member of the household.Therefore it was immensely surprising to hear these uncanny sounds,and it was small wonder if they did give rise to a wave ofsupernatural terror, of which the boy was man enough to feelashamed the moment reason had time to assert her sway."I have done no wrong; I confessed but three days since, andreceived blessing and absolution. If any spirit were to come tovisit this room, it could do me no hurt. Besides, methinks a spiritwould pass easily along the straightest place, and would not needto fumble thus as if in search of hidden bolts."Ha! what is that! Methought some spring shot back. Hist! here ITcomes!"The boy lay back upon his bed, drawing the clothes silently up tohis very eyes. The moonlight had shifted just a little, and nolonger illumined his face. That was now in shadow, and would scarcereveal the fact that he was awake. He lay perfectly still, scarcedaring to draw his breath, and the next moment a strange thinghappened.The whole of one of the great carved pillars that supported thehigh mantle shelf swung noiselessly forward, and stood out at rightangles to the wall. From where he lay Bertram could not see, but hecould well understand that when this was done a narrow doorway hadbeen revealed, and the next moment a shadowy figure glided withnoiseless steps into the room.The figure was poorly clad in a doublet of serge much the worse forwear, and the moonlight showed a strangely haggard face and soiledand torn raiment. Yet there was an air of dignity about themysterious visitor which showed to the astonished boy that he mustat some time have been in better circumstances, and lying quitestill Bertram watched his movements with breathless attention.With a quick, scared glance round him, as though afraid that eventhe silence might be the silence of treachery, the gaunt figureadvanced with covert eagerness across the floor, leaving the doorwide open behind him, as if to be ready for him should he desire tofly; and precipitating himself upon a ewer of cold water standingupon the floor, he drank and drank and drank as though he wouldnever cease.Plainly he was consumed by the most raging thirst. Bertram hadnever seen anything but an exhausted horse after a burning summer'schase in the forest drink in such a fashion. And as he watched, allfear left him in a moment, for certainly no phantom could drink drythis great ewer of spring water; and if he had only a creature offlesh and blood to deal with, why, then there was certainly nocause for fear.In place of dread and terror, a great pity welled up in thegenerous heart of the boy. He had all the hatred for oppression andthe chivalrous desire to help the oppressed that seem born in thehearts of the sons of British birth. Who and what manner of manthis was he did not know; but he was evidently some poor huntedcreature, going in very fear of his life, and as such the boypitied him from the very ground of his heart, and would gladly havehelped him had he known how.He lay for a few moments wondering and pondering. Certainly hisfather was no foe to any man. He could not be hiding from hisdispleasure. The fugitive had rather taken refuge in his house; andif so, who better could be found to help him than the son of theowner?"Our father and our mother alike have always taught us to befriendthe stranger and the oppressed," said the boy to himself. "I willask this stranger of himself, and see if I may befriend him. Iwould gladly learn the trick of yon door. It would be a goodlysecret to have for our very own."It was plain that the fugitive, though aware that the room wastenanted, had satisfied himself that the occupants were all asleep.He had ceased his frightened, furtive looks around him, and wasquaffing the last of the water with an air of relish and reliefthat was good to see, pausing from time to time to stretch hislimbs and to draw in great gulps of fresh air through the openwindow by which he stood, as a prisoner might do who had just beenreleased from harsh captivity.The moonlight shining upon his face showed it haggard, unkempt, andunshorn. Plainly he had been several days in hiding; and by thegauntness of his figure, and the wolfish gleam in his eye as itroved quickly round the apartment, as if in search of food, it wasplain that he was suffering keenly from hunger, too.Bertram's decision was quickly taken. Whilst the man's face wasturned the other way, he quickly rose from his bed, and crossingthe room with noiseless steps, laid a hand upon his arm."Hist, friend!" he whispered whilst the start given by the other,and the hoarse exclamation that broke from his lips, might havewakened sleepers who were not healthy, tired boys. "Fear not; I amno foe to betray thee. Tell me who and what thou art, and I willhelp thee all I may."The frightened eyes bent upon him bespoke a great terror. The man'svoice died away as he tried to speak. The only word Bertram couldcatch seemed to be a prayer that he would not betray him."Betray thee! Never! Why, good fellow, dost not know that theChadgroves never betray those who trust in them? Hence sometimeshas trouble come upon them. But before we talk, let me get theefood. Methinks thou art well-nigh starved.""Food! food! Ah, if thou wouldst give me that, young master, Iwould bless thee forever! I have well-nigh perished with hunger andthirst. Heaven be thanked that I have tasted water once again!""Come hither," said Bertram cautiously. "First close this narrowdoorway, the secret of which thou must teach me in return for whatI will do for thee, and then I will take thee to another chamber,where our voices will not disturb my brothers, and we can talk, andthou canst eat at ease. I must know thy story, and I pledge myselfto help thee. Show me now the trick of this door. I swear I willmake no treacherous use of the secret.""I will trust thee, young sir. I must needs do so, for withouthuman help I must surely die."Seest thou this bunch of grapes so cunningly carved here? Thismiddle grape of the cluster will turn round in the fingers thatknow how to find and grasp it, and so turning and turning slowly,unlooses a bolt within--here--and so the whole woodwork swings outupon hinges and reveals the doorway. Where that doorway leads Iwill show thee anon, if thou wouldst know the trick of the secretchamber at Chad that all men have now forgotten. It may be that itwill some day shelter thee or thine, for thou hast enemies abroad,even as I have."Bertram was intensely interested as he examined and mastered thesimple yet clever contrivance of this masked door; but quicklyremembering the starved condition of his companion, he led himcautiously into an adjoining room, where were a table and somescant furniture, and gliding down the staircase and along dimcorridors just made visible by the reflected radiance of the moon,he reached the buttery, and armed himself with a venison pasty, aloaf of bread, and a bottle of wine. Hurrying back with these, hesoon had the satisfaction to see the stranger fall upon them withthe keen relish of a man who has fasted to the last limits ofendurance; and only after he had seen that the keen edge of hishunger had been satisfied did he try to learn more of him and hisconcerns."Now tell me, my good friend, who and what thou art," said the boy,"and how comes it that thou seekest shelter here, and that thouknowest more of Chad than we its owners do. That is the thing whichhas been perplexing me this long while. I would fain hear from thystory how it comes about.""That is soon told, young sir. Thou dost not, probably, rememberthe name of Warbel as that of some of the retainers of thygrandsire, but--""I have heard the name," said the boy. "I have heard my fatherspeak of them. But I knew not that there were any of that name nowliving.""I am a Warbel--I trow the last of my race. I was born beyond theseas; but I was early brought to England, and I heard munch of thestrife that encompassed Chad, because my father and grandfatherboth knew the place well, and would fain have gone back and livedin the old country had not fortune otherwise decreed it. To make along story short, they never returned to the place. But when I wasgrown to man's estate, I was offered a post in the household of theLord of Mortimer, and as it was the best thing that had fallen inmy way, I accepted it very gladly; for I knew that name, too, and Iknew naught against the haughty lord, albeit my father andgrandsire had not loved the lords of that name who lived beforehim."For many years I have been in his service, and for a while allwent well with me. I was made one of his gentlemen, and he seemedto favour me. But of late there has been a change towards me--Iknow not how or why. I have offended him without intending it, andhe has sometimes provoked me almost beyond endurance by his proudinsolence. But that I might have borne, for he was my master, hadit not been for the insolence and insults I had to bear from othersamongst his servants, and from one youth in particular, who seemedto me to be trying to oust me from my place, and to get himself theforemost place in his master's favour. That made my hot blood boilagain and again, until at last the thing I believe they had longplanned happened, and I had to fly for my life."The man paused, and Bertram, who was drinking in this story, askedeagerly: "And what was that?""It was four days ago now, in the hall where we had supped. We haddrunk much wine in honour of our master's birthday, and then webegan playing and dicing to pass the time till we retired to bed.My adversary was this youth whom I so greatly distrust. As weplayed I detected him in unfair practices. He vowed I lied, andcalled upon me to prove my words at the sword's point; but in myfury and rage I sprang upon him with my bare hands, and would havewrung his neck--the insolent popinjay--had I been able. As it was,we struggled and swayed together till my greater weight caused himto fall over backwards against one of the tables, and I verilybelieve his back is broken. I know not whether he is living yet.But as he is not only a great favourite with the Lord of Mortimer,but a distant kinsman to boot, no sooner was the deed done than allin the hall called to me to save myself by flight, for that themaster would revenge such a death upon the perpetrator of itwithout mercy, and that if I wished to spare my neck I must flywithout an instant's delay."I knew this but too well myself. The baron was a fearful man tomeet in his rage. Where to fly I knew not, but stay I could not. Ihad bare time to rush to my room, don a dress that would not exciteinquiry if I had to lie hid in the forest a few days. I did notthink flight would be so difficult a matter, but I knew that everymoment spent in Mortimer's Keep was at peril of my life; and I hadbut just made my escape through a small postern door before I heardthe alarm bell ring, the drawbridge go up, and knew that the edicthad gone forth for my instant apprehension."He paused with a slight shudder, and seemed to be listeningintently."There is naught to fear here," said Bertram. "Tell me more of thyflight.""It was terrible," answered the man. "I had not looked to be huntedlike the wild beasts of the forest; and yet an hour had not gone bybefore I heard, by the baying of the fierce hounds that are kept atMortimer, that a hunting party had sallied forth; and I knew that Iwas the quarry. I doubled and ran like any hare. I knew the tricksof the wild things that have skill in baffling the dogs, and atlast I reached the shelter of these walls, and ran there forprotection. I had thrown off the dogs at the last piece of water;and in the marshy ground the scent did not lie, and could not bepicked up. For a brief moment I was safe; but I was exhaustedalmost to death. I could go no further. I lay down beneath theshadow of some arbour within the sheltering precincts of Chad, andwondered what would become of me.""Yes, yes! and then--?""Then I remembered a story told me by my grandsire, years and yearsgone by, of a secret chamber at Chad, which had sheltered many afugitive in the hour of peril. Lying out in the soft night air, Irecalled bit by bit all that I had been told--the very drawings theold man had made to amuse me in a childish sickness, how the dooropened, and how access was had to the chamber. I knew that thecountry round would be hunted for days, and that I could neverescape the malice of the Lord of Mortimer if I pursued my way tothe sea. He would overtake and kill me before I could make shift togain that place of refuge. But I bethought me of the secret chamberand its story, and methought I might slip in unseen did I but watchmy opportunity, find my way up the winding stair to this room, andso to the secret chamber beyond.""And thou didst?""Ay, I did, the very next morning. I saw thee and thy brotherssally forth a-hunting. I saw the men follow in thy train. I hadheard that the knight and his lady with their retinue were absentat Windsor. It needed no great skill to slip in unseen and gain thelonged-for hiding place. I had some food in my wallet. I fondlyhoped it would prove enough; but the sounds of hunting day by dayall around have told me too well that I must not venture forth; andas this room was slept in by night, I feared to sally forth afterfood, lest I should be found and betrayed. I had heard of themerciful nature of the master of Chad; but in his absence I knewnot what his servants might say or do. Doubtless there is a rewardoffered for my apprehension; and if that be so, how could I helpfearing that any hired servant would betray me to my lord?""And thou thoughtest that servants slept in this room, and darednot show thyself either by day or night for fear thou mightest bebetrayed! And only hunger and thirst drove thee forth at length?""Ay. And from my heart do I thank thee for thy kindness, young sir;and gladly will I show thee in return the trick of yon chamber. Ifthou canst kindle a torch it will light us better, for the waythither is wondrous tortuous and narrow."Bertram had a little lantern--a very treasured possession ofhis--and after the usual tedious process of lighting had been gonethrough, he softly led the way back to the sleeping chamber. Withhis own hands he undid the fastening of the door and saw it swingopen, and then the two passed through into a very narrow aperture,which proved to be a long narrow gallery contrived in the thicknessof the wall, which would only just admit of the passage of onefigure at a time.As they went in they drew to the door, and the fugitive showed hisyoung companion how the bolt upon the inner side might be unloosed."It is easy enow in the light, but hard to feel in the blackdarkness," he remarked; and then they pursued their devious way onand on through this strange passage, which wound up and down and inand out, and landed them at last at the foot of a spiral staircase,so narrow and squeezed in by masonry as to be barely serviceablefor the purpose for which it was contrived. It led them to a smalldoor, through which they passed, to find themselves in a room offair size but very low, and without any window, which seemed tooccupy (as indeed it did) a portion of the house between two of theother floors, and was so contrived as to absolutely defy detectionbe the examination of the structure of the house never soexhaustive. If the secret door were not found, nothing else wouldever betray this cunning hiding-place. Doubtless that was why,during the many changes that had prevailed at Chad during the pastfifty years, the knowledge of its very existence had been lost."Air comes in freely through many cracks and slits," explained theprisoner. "It is not an unpleasant place save in the heat of themiddle day, when it becomes like a veritable oven. That is why mythirst was so unbearable. There is a bed, as thou seest, and achair and a few other things. One could be comfortable here were itnot for starvation and thirst.""I will feed thee so long as thou remainest hid," cried the boy,with generous ardour. "Thou shalt hide there by day, and by nightshalt wander abroad an thou wilt, to breathe the air and stretchthy limbs. My brothers and I will be thy friends. Thou needst fearnothing now. We will find out when it is safe for thee to leave thyretreat, and then thou shalt go forth without fear; or, if thoulikest it better, thou shalt abide here till our father returns andtake service with him. I doubt not he would be glad enow to numbera Warbel again amongst his trusty servants."The man's face lighted up wonderfully."If he would do that," he cried eagerly, "I should have no wish foranything better. But my master, the baron--""My father fears not the baron!" answered the boy proudly; "and,besides, his young kinsman is not dead. We heard something of hisside of the tale, and the youth is not even like to die now. Myfather could protect thee from his wrath. Stay here, and thou wilthave naught to fear."The fugitive took the lad's hand and pressed it to his lips."I will serve thee for ever and ever for this boon," he answered;and Bertram went back to his room, to lie awake and muse over whathad befallen till the dawn broke and his brothers awoke to the newday.To keep any secret from his two brothers was a thing impossible toBertram, and before they had finished dressing that morning, Edredand Julian were both made aware of the strange adventure of thenight previous. Looking up to Bertram, as they both did, as theembodiment of prowess and courage, they did not grudge him hiswonderful discovery, but they were eager to visit the fugitivethemselves, and to carry him food and drink.The days that followed were days of absolute enchantment to theboys, who delighted in waiting on Warbel and passing hours in hiscompany. He told them entrancing stories of adventure and peril. Hewas devoted to his three youthful keepers, and wished for nothingbetter than to enter service with their father.Later on, when all hue and cry after the missing man was over, andwhen Lord Mortimer's young kinsman was so far recovered that itwould be impossible to summon Warbel for any injury inflicted onhim, Bertram conducted him to the hut of one of his father'swoodmen, who promised to keep him safe till the return of theknight.When Sir Oliver came back, Warbel was brought to him, told a partof his tale, and was admitted readily as a member of the household;but the story of his incarceration in the secret chamber remained asecret known only to himself and the three boys. So delightful amystery as the existence of this unknown chamber was too preciousto be parted with; and it was a compact between the boys and theman, who now became their chief attendant and body servant, thatthe trick of that door and the existence of that chamber were to betold to none, but kept as absolutely their own property.Chapter II: The Household At Chad.The office of mistress of a large household in the sixteenthcentury was no sinecure. It was not the fashion then to depute tothe hands of underlings the supervision of the details of domesticmanagement; and though the lady of the Hall might later in the dayentertain royalty itself, the early hours of the morning were spentin careful and busy scrutiny of kitchen, pantry, and store or stillroom, and her own fair hands knew much of the actual skill whichwas required in the preparation of the many compounds which gracedthe board at dinner or supper.Lady Chadgrove was no exception to the general rule of carefulhousehold managers; and whilst her lord and master went hunting orhawking in the fresh morning air, or shut himself up in his libraryto examine into the accounts his steward laid before him or concernhimself with some state business that might have been placed in hishands, she was almost always to be found in the offices of thehouse, looking well after the domestic details of householdmanagement, and seeing that each servant and scullion was doing thework appointed with steadiness and industry.There was need for some such careful supervision of the dailyroutine, for the large houses in the kingdom were mainly dependentupon their own efforts for the necessaries of life throughout theyear. In towns there were shops where provisions could be readilybought, but no such institution as that of country shops had beendreamed of as yet. The lord of the manor killed his own meat, bakedhis own bread, grew his own wheat, and ground his own flour. He hadhis own brewery within the precinct of the great courtyard, wherevast quantities of mead and ale were brewed, cider and otherlighter drinks made, and even some sorts of simple home-grownwines. Chad boasted its own "vineyard," where grapes flourished inabundance, and ripened in the autumn as they will not do now.Nothing, perhaps, shows more clearly the change that has passedupon our climate by slow degrees than a study of the parish recordsof ancient days. Vineyards were common enough in England somehundreds of years ago, and wine was made from the produce asregularly as the season came round. Then there were the simplerfruit wines from gooseberries, currants, and elderberries, to saynothing of cowslip wine and other light beverages which it was thepride of the mistress to contrive and to excel in the making. Ourforefathers, though they knew nothing of the luxuries of tea andcoffee, were by no means addicted to the drinking of water.Considering the sanitary conditions in which they lived in thosedays, and the fearful contamination of water which frequentlyprevailed, and which doubtless had much to do with the spread ofthe Black Death and other like visitations, this was no doubt anadvantage. Still there were drawbacks to the habit of constantquaffing of fermented drinks at all hours of the day, and it wasoften a difficult matter to keep in check the sin of drunkennessthat prevailed amongst all classes of the people.At Chad the gentle influence of the lady of the manor had done muchto make this household an improvement on many of its neighbours.Although there was always abundance of good things and a liberalhospitality to strangers of all sorts, it was not often that anyunseemly roistering disturbed the inmates of Chad. The servants andretainers looked up to their master and mistress with loyalty anddevotion, curbed their animal passions and wilder moods out of loveand reverence for them, and grew more civilized and cultivatedalmost without knowing it, until the wild orgies which oftendisgraced the followings of the country nobility were almostunknown here.Possibly another humanizing and restraining influence that actedsilently upon the household was the presence of a young monk, whohad been brought not long since from a neighbouring monastery, toact in the capacity of chaplain to the household and tutor to theboys, now fast growing towards man's estate. There was a beautifullittle chapel connected with Chad. It had fallen something intoneglect and ruin during the days of the civil wars, and had beenbattered about in some of the struggles that had raged round Chad.But Sir Oliver had spent both money and loving care in restoringand beautifying the little place, and now the daily mass was saidthere by Brother Emmanuel, and the members of the household wereencouraged to attend as often as their duties would permit. Thebrother, too, would go about amongst the people and talk with themas they pursued their tasks, and not one even of the rudest androughest but would feel the better for the kindly and beneficentinfluence of the youthful ecclesiastic.Brother Emmanuel had one of those keenly intelligent and versatileminds that are always craving a wider knowledge, and think noknowledge, even of the humblest, beneath notice. He would ask thepoorest wood cutter to instruct him in the handling of his tool orin the simple mysteries of his craft as humbly as though he wereasking instruction from one of the learned of the land. Noinformation, no occupation came amiss to him. He saw in all toil adignity and a power, and he strove to impress upon every worker, ofwhatever craft he might be, that to do his day's work with all hismight and with the best powers at his command was in truth oneexcellent way of serving God, and more effectual than any number ofPaters and Aves said whilst idling away the time that should begiven to his master's service.Such teaching might not be strictly orthodox from a monkishstandpoint, but it commended itself to the understanding and theapproval of simple folks; and the brother was none the less belovedand respected that his talk and his teaching did not follow thecut-and-dried rules of his order. Sir Oliver and his wife thoughtexcellently of the young man, and to the boys he was friend as wellas tutor.On this hot midsummer day the mistress of Chad was making her usualmorning round of the kitchens and adjoining offices--her simplethough graceful morning robe, and the plain coif covering her hair,showing that she was not yet dressed for the duties which wouldengross her later in the day. She had a great bunch of keysdangling at her girdle, and her tablets were in her hands, wherefrom time to time she jotted down some brief note to be enteredlater in those household books which she kept herself withscrupulous care, so that every season she knew exactly how manygallons or hogsheads of mead or wine had been brewed, what had beenthe yield of every crop in the garden or meadow, what stores ofconserves had been made from each fruit as its season came in, andwhether that quantity had proved sufficient for the year'sconsumption.The cherry crop was being gathered in today. Huge baskets of thedelicious fruit were ranged along one wall of the still room, andbusy hands were already preparing the bright berries for thepreserving pan or the rows of jars that were likewise placed inreadiness to receive them. The cherry trees of Chad were famous fortheir splendid crop, and the mistress had many wonderful recipesand preparations by which the fruit was preserved and made into allmanner of dainty conserves that delighted all who partook of them."I will come anon, and help you with your task," said the lady tothe busy wenches in the still room, who were hard at work preparingthe fruit. "I will return as soon as I have made my round, and seethat all is going well."The girls smiled, and dropped their rustic courtesies. Some amongstthem were not the regular serving maids of the place, but were thedaughters of the humbler retainers living round and about, who wereglad to come to assist at the great house when there was any pressof work--a thing that frequently happened from April to November.None who assisted at Chad at such times ever went away emptyhanded. Besides the small wage given for the work done, there wasalways a basket of fruit, or a piece of meat, or a flagon of wine,according to the nature of the task, set aside for each assistantwho did not dwell beneath the roof of Chad. And if there wassickness in any cottage from which a worker came, there was certainto be some little delicacy put into a basket by the hands of themistress, and sent with a kindly word of goodwill and sympathy tothe sufferer.It was small wonder, then, that the household and community of Chadwas a happy and peaceable one, or that the knight and his lady werebeloved of all around.The morning's round was no sinecure, even though the mistress wastoday as quick as possible in her visit of inspection. Three fatbucks had been brought in from the forest yester-eve, when theknight and his sons had returned from hunting. The venison had tobe prepared, and a part of it dried and salted down for winter use;whilst of course a great batch of pies and pasties must be put inhand, so that the most should be made of the meat whilst it wasstill fresh.When that matter had been settled, there were the live creatures tovisit--the calves in their stalls, the rows of milch kine, and thegreat piggery, where porkers of every kind and colour were tumblingabout in great excitement awaiting their morning meal. The mistressof the house generally saw the pigs fed each day, to insure theirhaving food proper to them, and not the offal and foul remnantsthat idle servants loved to give and they to eat were not somesupervision exercised. The care of dogs and horses the lady left toher husband and sons, but the cows, the pigs, and the poultry shealways looked after herself.Her daily task accomplished, she returned to the still room,prepared for a long morning over her conserves. It was buthalf-past nine now; for the breakfast hour in baronial houses wasseven all the year round, and today had been half-an-hour earlieron account of the press of work incident to the harvesting of thecherry crop. Several of the servants who were generally occupiedabout the house had risen today with the lark, to be able to helptheir lady, and soon a busy, silent party was working in pantry andstill room under the careful eye of the mistress.One old woman who had been accommodated with a chair, though herfingers were as brisk as any of the younger girls', from time totime addressed a question or a remark to her lady, which was alwayskindly answered. She was the old nurse of Chad, having been nurseto Sir Oliver in his infancy, and having since had charge of histhree boys during their earliest years. She was growing infirm now,and seldom left her own little room in a sunny corner of the bighouse, where her meals were taken her by one of the younger maids.But in the warm weather, when her stiff limbs gained a little morepower, she loved on occasion to come forth and take a share in thelife of the house, and work with the busy wenches under themistress's eye at the piles of fruit from the successive summer andautumn crops as they came in rotation."And where be the dear children?" she asked once; "I have not seteyes on them the livelong day. Methought the very smell of thecherries would have brought them hither, as bees and wasps to ahoney pot."The lady smiled slightly."I doubt not they will be here anon; but doubtless they have paidmany visits to the trees ere the store was garnered. I think theyare in the tilt yard with Warbel. It is there they are generally tobe found in the early hours of the day.""They be fine, gamesome lads," said the old woman fondly--"chips ofthe old block, true Chads every one of them;" for the custom withthe common people was to call the lord of the manor by the name ofhis house rather than by his own patronymic, and Sir Oliver wascommonly spoken of as "Chad" by his retainers; a custom whichlingered long in the south and west of the country."They are well-grown, hearty boys," answered the mother quietly,though there was a light of tender pride in her eyes. "Bertram isalmost a man in looks, though he is scarce seventeen yet.Seventeen! How time flies! It seems but yesterday since he was alittle boy standing at my knee to say his light tasks, and walkingto and fro holding his father's hand. Well, Heaven be praised, theyears have been peaceful and prosperous, else would not they havefled by so swiftly.""Heaven be praised indeed!" echoed the old woman. "For now themaster is so safely seated at Chad that he would be a bold man whotried to oust him. But in days gone by I have sorely feared yonproud Lord of Mortimer. Methought he would try to do him amischief. His spleen and spite, as all men say, are very great."The lady's face clouded slightly, but her reply was quiet and calm."I fear me they are that still; but he lacks all cause of offence.My good lord is careful in all things to avoid making ill bloodwith a jealous neighbour. That he has always cast covetous eyesupon Chad is known throughout the countryside; but I trow he wouldfind it something difficult to make good any claim.""Why, verily!" cried the nurse, with energy. "He could but come asa foul usurper, against whom would every honest hand be raised.But, good my mistress, what is the truth of the whisper I haveheard that the Lord of Mortimer has wed his daughter to one whocalls himself of the house of Chad? I cannot believe that any ofthe old race would mate with a Mortimer. Is it but the idle gossipof the ignorant? or what truth is there in it?""I scarce know myself the rights of the matter," answered LadyChadgrove, still with a slight cloud upon her brow. "It iscertainly true that Lord Mortimer has lately wed his only child, adaughter, to a knight who calls himself Sir Edward Chadwell, andmakes claim to be descended from my lord's house. Men say that hemakes great boasting that the Chadwells are an older branch thanthe Chadgroves, and that by right of inheritance Chad is his."Methinks he would find it very hard to make good any such claim.Belike it is but idle boasting. Yet it may be that there will besome trouble in store. He has taken up his abode at Mortimer'sKeep, and maybe we shall hear ill news before long."All eyes were fixed for a moment on the lady's face, and then thehands moved faster than before, whilst a subdued murmur went roundthe group. Not one heart was there that did not beat withindignation at the thought that any should dare to try to disturbthe peace of the rightful lord of Chad. If the loyalty andaffection of all around would prove a safeguard, the knight needhave no fear from the claims advanced by any adversary."There has been a muttering of coming tempest anent those vexedforest rights," continued the lady, in reply to some indignantwords from the nurse. "I would that difficult question could besettled and laid at rest; but my good lord has yielded somethingtoo much already for the sake of peace and quietness, and at eachconcession Mortimer's word was passed that he would claim nofurther rights over the portion that remained to us. But his wordis broken without scruple, and we cannot ever be giving way. Wereno stand to be made, the whole forest track would soon be claimedby Mortimer, and we should have nothing but the bare park that isfenced about and cannot be filched bit by bit away. But all theworld knows that Chad has forest rights equal to those of Mortimer.It is but to seek a quarrel that the baron continues to push hisclaims ever nearer and nearer our walls."Another murmur of indignation went round; but there was no time forfurther talk, as at that moment the three boys entered from thetilt yard; hot, thirsty, and breathless, and the fair-haired ladwith the dreamy blue eyes held a kerchief to his head that wasstained with blood."Art hurt, Edred?" asked the mother, looking up."'Tis but a scratch," answered the boy. "I am not quite a match forBertram yet; but I will be anon. I must learn to be quicker in mydefence. Thanks, gentle mother; belike it will be better for it tobe bound up. It bleeds rather too fast for comfort, but thy handswill soon stop that."The other boys fell upon the fruit with right good will, whilst themother led her second son to the small pump nigh at hand, andbathed and dressed the rather ugly wound in his head.Neither mother nor son thought anything of the hurt. It was easyenough to give and receive hard blows in the tilt yard, and bruisesand cuts were looked upon as part of the discipline of life.As soon as the dressing was over, Edred joined his brothers, anddid his share in diminishing the pile of luscious fruit. And asthey ate they chattered away to the old woman of their prowess intilt yard and forest, relating how Bertram had slain a fat buckwith his own hands the previous day, and how they had between themgiven the coup-de-grace to another, which had been brought to bayat the water, father and huntsmen standing aloof to let the boysshow their strength and skill.Nine years had passed since that strange night when Bertram hadbeen awakened by the advent of the mysterious stranger at hisbedside. He had developed since then from a sturdy little boy intoa fine-grown youth of seventeen, who had in his own eyes, and inthe eyes of many others, well-nigh reached man's estate; and whowould, if need should arise, go forth equipped for war to fight theking's battles. He was a handsome, dark-haired, dark-eyed youth,with plenty of determination and force of character, and with alove of Chad so deeply rooted in his nature, that to be the heir ofthat property seemed to him the finest position in all the world,and he would not have exchanged it for that of Prince of Wales.The second son, Edred (Ethelred was his true name; he was calledafter his mother, Etheldred), was some half-head shorter than hisbrother, but a fine boy for all that. He was fifteen, and whilstsharing to a great extent in the love of sport and of warlike gamesso common in that day, he was also a greater lover of books thanhis brothers, and would sometimes absent himself from theirpastimes to study with Brother Emmanuel and learn from him manythings that were not written in books. The other lads gave moretime to study than was usual at that period; for both Sir Oliverand his lady believed in the value of book lore and the use of thepen, deploring the lack of learning that had prevailed during theconfusion of the late wars, and greatly desiring its revival. Butit was Edred who really inherited the scholarly tastes of hisparents, and already the question of making a monk of him was underserious discussion. The boy thought that if he might have a fewmore years of liberty and enjoyment he should like the life of thecloister well.Julian bore a strong resemblance to Bertram both in person anddisposition. He was a very fine boy, nearly fourteen years old, andhad been the companion of his brothers from infancy, so that heoften appeared older than his age. All three brothers were boundtogether in bonds of more than wonted affection. They not onlyshared their sports and studies, but held almost all theirbelongings in common. Each lad had his own horse and his ownweapons, whilst Edred had one or two books over which he claimedabsolute possession; but for the rest, they enjoyed all propertiesin common, and it had hardly entered into their calculations thatthey could ever be separated, save when the idea of making Edredinto a monk came under discussion; and as that would not be donefor some years, it scarcely seemed worth troubling over now.Perhaps things would turn out differently in the end, and theywould remain together at Chad for the whole of their natural lives.Nurse never wearied of the tales told by her young masters, andlistened with fond pride to the recital. So eagerly were Bertramand Julian talking, that they did not heed the sound of the horn atthe gate way which bespoke the arrival of some messenger; but Edredslipped out to see who could be coming, and presently he returnedwith a frown upon his brow."There is a messenger at the gate who wears the livery ofMortimer," he said. "An insolent knave to boot, who flung hismissive in the face of old Ralph, and spurred off with a mockinglaugh. I would I had had my good steed between my knees, and Iwould have given the rascal a lesson in manners. I like not thesemessengers from Mortimer; they always betide ill will to myfather."Lady Chadgrove looked anxious for a moment, but her brow sooncleared as she made answer: "I shall be sorry if aught comes togrieve or vex your father; but so long as we are careful to give nojust cause for offence, we need not trouble our heads overmuch asto the jealous anger of the Lord of Mortimer. I misdoubt me if hecan really hurt us, be he never so vindictive. The king is just,and he values the services of your father. He will not permit himto be molested without cause. And methinks my Lord of Mortimerknows as much, else he would have wrought us more ill all thesepast years.""He is a tyrant and an evil liver!" cried Bertram hotly; "and hisservants be drunken, brawling knaves, every one--as insolent astheir master. If I had been old Ralph, I would have hurled back hismissive in his face, and bidden him deliver it rightly.""Nay, nay, my son; that would but be to stir up strife. If otherscomport themselves ill, that is no reason why our servants shoulddo the like. I would never give a foe a handle against me by theill behaviour of even a serving man. Let them act never so surlily,I would that they were treated with all due courtesy."Bertram and Julian hardly entered into their mother's feelings onthis point; but Edred looked up eagerly, and it was plain that heunderstood the feelings which prompted the words, for he said in alow voice:"Methinks thou art right, gentle mother; albeit I did sorely longto give the varlet a lesson to teach him better. But perchance itwas well I was not nigh enough. Surely it must be nigh upon thehour for dinner. Our sport has whet the edge of appetite, and Iwould fain hear what the missive was which yon knave brought withhim. Our father will doubtless tell us at the table."It was indeed nearly noon, and mistress and maids alikerelinquished their tasks to prepare for the meal which was thechiefest of the day, though the supper was nothing to be despised.The long table in the great banqueting hall was a goodly sight tosee when the dinner was spread, and the retainers of the bettersort and some amongst the upper servants sat down with the masterand his family to partake of the good cheer. At one end of the longboard sat the knight and his lady side by side; to their right werethe three boys, the young monk, and Warbel the armourer, who nowheld a post of some importance in the house. Opposite to these wereother gentlemen-at-arms and their sons, who were resident at Chad;and at the lower end of the table, below the great silver saltcellars, sat the seneschal, the lowlier retainers, and certaintrusted servants who held responsible positions at Chad. The cooksand scullions and underlings dined in the great kitchen immediatelyafter their masters' meal had been served.The table at Chad always groaned with good things, except at suchseasons as the Church decreed a fast, and then the diet wasscrupulously kept within the prescribed bounds. Sir Oliver and hiswife were both devout and earnest people, and had every reverencefor their spiritual superiors. The Benedictine Priory of Chadwaterstood only a mile and a half distant, and the prior was onexcellent terms with the owner of Chad. Brother Emmanuel had beenan inmate of the priory before he was selected by Sir Oliver forthe education of his sons. He was considered a youth of no smallpromise, and the knight was well pleased at the progress made byhis boys since they had been studying with him.Today there was a look of annoyance upon the handsome face of SirOliver Chadgrove. It was a striking countenance at all times, inwhich sternness of purpose and kindness of heart were blended in afashion that was both attractive and unusual. He had the sameregular features, rather square in the outline, which he hadtransmitted to his children; and his hair, which was now silveredwith many streaks, had been raven black in its day. His carriagewas upright and fearless, and he was very tall and powerfullyproportioned. It was Bertram's keenest ambition to grow up in allpoints like his father, and he copied him, consciously andunconsciously, in a fashion that often raised a smile on hismother's face."I have been favoured with another insolent letter from my Lord ofMortimer," he said. "He had better take heed that he try not mypatience too far, and that I go not to the king and lay a complaintbefore him. I will do so if I be much more troubled.""What says he now, father?" asked Bertram eagerly, forgetting inhis eagerness the generally observed maxim that the sons spoke notat table till they were directly addressed. But the knight did nothimself heed this breach of decorum."It is the same old story; but every year he grows more graspingand more insolent. Today he complains, forsooth, that the last buckwe killed was killed on his ground, and by rights belonged to him.He threatens that his foresters and huntsmen will wage war with usin future if we 'trespass' upon his rights, and wrest our spoilfrom us! Beshrew me if I submit to much more! Patience andforbearance are useless with such a man. I would I had not concededall I have done in the interests of peace."Bertram's face was crimson with anger, Edred's eyes had widened inastonishment, whilst Julian burst out in indignant remonstrance andargument."His ground! his rights! How can he dare say that? Why, the buckwas killed at Juno's Pool; and all the world knows that that iswithin the confines of Chad, and that all forest rights therebelong to the Lord of Chad! I would I could force his false wordsdown his false throat! I would I could--" but the boy suddenlyceased, because he caught his mother's warning eye upon him, andsaw that his father had opened his lips to speak."Ay, and he knows it himself as well as we do; but he is growingbolder and bolder through that monstrous claim he is everthreatening to push--the claim of his son-in-law to be rightfulLord of Chad! Phew! he will find it hard to prove that claim, or tooust the present lord. But Mortimer has money and to spare, andChad has long been to him what Naboth's vineyard was to King Ahab--"Brother Emmanuel, that simile is thine, and a right good one, too."He will seize on any pretext to pick a quarrel; and if he dares,he will push that quarrel at the point of the sword. I do not fearhim; I have the right on my side. But we may not blind ourselves tothis: that he is a right bitter and treacherous foe, and thatshould we give any, even the smallest cause of suspicion oroffence, he would seize upon that to ruin us."Sir Oliver looked keenly round the table at all assembled there,and many knew better than his sons what was in his mind at the timeand what had caused him to speak thus.For a long while now the leaven of Lollardism had been workingsilently in the country, and there were very many even amongstorthodox sons of the Church who were more or less "bitten" by someof the new notions. It need hardly be said that wherever light is,it will penetrate in a mysterious and often inexplicable fashion;and although there was much extravagance and perversion in theteachings of the advanced Lollards, there was undoubtedly amongstthem a far clearer and purer light than existed in the hearts ofthose of the common people who had been brought up beneath the swayof the priests, themselves so often ignorant and ill-living men.And so the light gradually spread; and many who would haverepudiated the name of Lollard with scorn and loathing werebeginning to hold some of their tenets, and to wish for a simplerand purer form of faith, and for liberty to study the Scripturesfor themselves; and no one knew better the leavening spirit of theage than did Sir Oliver Chadgrove, himself a man of liberal viewsand devout habit of mind, and his wife, who shared his everythought and opinion.They had both heard the stirring and enlightened preaching of DeanColet, and were great admirers of his; but they took the view thatthat divine himself held--namely, that the Church would graduallyreform herself from within; that she was awakening to the need ofsome reformation and advance; and that her sons were safe withinher fold, and must patiently await her own work there.This was exactly the feeling of the knight and his lady. Theyrejoiced in the words they had heard, and in the wider knowledge ofthe Scriptures which had been thus unfolded; but that any suchdoctrine, when preached and taught by the Lollard heretics, couldbe right or true they would have utterly denied and repudiated. TheLollards had won for themselves a bad name, and were thought ofwith scorn and contempt. Nevertheless, in country places the leavenof their teaching permeated far and wide, and Sir Oliver had morethan once occasion to fear that amongst his own retainers some wereslightly tainted by heresy.Of course if it could be proved against him that his followers wereLollards, his enemy might take terrible advantage and deal him aheavy blow. It was the one charge which if proved would strike himto the earth; even the king's favour would scarce serve him then.The king would not stand up in opposition to the Church; and if theChurch condemned his house as being a harbouring place forheretics, then indeed he would be undone.It was this thing which was in his mind as he glanced with keeneyes round his table on this bright midsummer day; and his wife,and the monk, and the bulk of those sitting there read the truemeaning of his words and of his look, and recognized the truth ofthe grave word of warning.Chapter III: Brother Emmanuel.The hush of a Sabbath was upon the land. The sounds of life andindustry were no longer heard around Chad. Within and without thehouse a calm stillness prevailed, and the hot summer sunshine laybroad upon the quiet fields and the garden upon which so muchloving care had of late years been spent.The white and red roses, no longer the symbols of party strife,were blooming in their midsummer glory. The air was sweet withtheir fragrance, and bees hummed drowsily from flower to flower. Inthe deep shadow cast by a huge cedar tree, that reared its statelyhead as high as the battlements of the turret, a small group hadgathered this hot afternoon. The young monk was there in the blackcassock, hood, and girdle that formed the usual dress of theBenedictine in this country, and around him were grouped his threepupils, to whom he was reading out of the great Latin Bible thatwas one of the treasures of Sir Oliver's library.All the boys were Latin scholars, and had made much progress intheir knowledge of that language since the advent of the young monkinto the household. They had likewise greatly increased in theirknowledge of the Scriptures; for Brother Emmanuel was a soundbeliever in the doctrine preached by the Dean of St. Paul's, and ofthe maxims laid down by him--that the Scriptures were not to bepulled to fragments, and each fragment explained without referenceto the context, but to be studied and examined as a whole, and soexplained, one portion illuminating and illustrating another. Aftersuch a fashion had Brother Emmanuel long been studying the Word ofGod, and after such a method did he explain it to his pupils.All three boys were possessed of clear heads and quickintelligence, and their minds had expanded beneath the influence ofthe young monk's teaching. They all loved a quiet hour spent withhim in reading and expounding the Bible narrative, and today alarger portion than usual had been read; for the heat made exertionunwelcome even to the active lads, and it was pleasanter herebeneath the cedar tree than anywhere else besides."Now, I would fain know," began Julian, after a pause in thereading, "why it is that it is thought such a vile thing for men topossess copies of God's Word in their own tongue that they may readit to themselves. It seems to me that men would be better and notworse for knowing the will of God in all things; and here it is setdown clearly for every man to understand. Yet, if I understand notamiss, it is made a cause of death for any to possess theScriptures in his own tongue.""Yea, that is what the heretic Lollards do--read and expound theScriptures in the vulgar tongue and after their own fashion," saidBertram. "Have a care, Julian, how thou seemest to approve theirmethods; for there is a great determination in high places to putdown at once and for all the vile doctrines which are corruptingall the land.""I approve no heresy," cried Julian eagerly. "I do but ask why itbe heresy to read the Word of God, and to have in possession aportion of it in the language of one's country.""Marry, dost thou not know that one reason is the many errors thetranslators have fallen into, which deceive the unwary and lead theflock astray?" cried Edred eagerly. "Brother Emmanuel has told mesome amongst these, and there are doubtless many others of which hemay not have heard. A man may not drink with impunity of poisonedwaters; neither is it safe to take as the Word of God a book whichmay have many perversions of His truth."Edred looked up at Brother Emmanuel for confirmation of thisexplanation. It was the monk's habit to encourage the boys todiscuss any question of interest freely amongst themselves, helistening in silence the while, and later on giving them thebenefit of his opinion. All the three turned to him now to see whathe would say upon a point that was already agitating the country,and was preparing the way for a shaking that should lead to analtogether new state of existence both in Church and State. Evenout here in the garden, in the sanctuary of their own home, withonly their friend and spiritual pastor to hear them, the boys spokewith bated breath, as though fearful of uttering words which mighthave within them some germ of that dreaded sin of heresy.As for Brother Emmanuel, he sat with his hands folded in hissleeves, the great book upon his knees, a slight and thoughtfulsmile playing around the corners of his finely-cut mouth. His wholeface was intensely spiritual in expression. The features weredelicately cut, and bore the impress of an ascetic life, as well asof gentle birth and noble blood. He was, in fact, a scion of anancient and powerful house; but it was one of those houses that hadsuffered sorely in the recent strife, and whose members had beenscattered and cut off. He had no powerful relatives and friends toturn to now for promotion to rich benefice or high ecclesiasticalpreferment, and he had certainly never lamented this fact. In heartand soul he was a follower of the rules of poverty laid down by thefounder of his order, and would have thought himself untrue to hiscalling had he suffered himself to be endowed with worldly wealth.Even such moneys as he received from Sir Oliver for the instructiongiven to his sons were never kept by himself. All were given eitherto the poor by his hands direct, or placed at the disposal of thePrior of Chadwater, where he had been an inmate for a short timeprevious to his installation as chaplain at Chad. He had not soughtthis office; he would rather have remained beneath the priorywalls. He thought that it was something contrary to the will of thefounders for monks to become parochial priests, or to hold officesand benefices which took them from the shelter of their monasterywalls. But such things were of daily occurrence now, and werecausing bitter jealousy to arise betwixt the parochial clergy andthe monks, sowing seeds of strife which played a considerable partin the struggle this same century was to see. But it was useless totry to stem the current single-handed, and the rule of obediencewas as strong within him as that of poverty and chastity.When sent forth by his prior (who secretly thought that this youngmonk was too strict and ascetic and too keen-witted to be a safeinmate of a house which had long fallen from its high estate, andwas becoming luxurious and wealthy and lax), he had goneunmurmuringly to Chad, and since then had become so much interestedin his pupils and in his round of daily duties there that he hadnot greatly missed the life of the cloister.He had leisure for thought and for study. He had access to alibrary which, although not large, held many treasures of bookmaking, and was sufficient for the requirements of the young monk.He could keep the hours of the Church in the little chantryattached to the house, and he was taken out of the atmosphere ofjealousy and bickering which, to his own great astonishment anddismay, he had found to be the prevailing one at Chadwater.On the whole, he had benefited by the change, and was very happy inhis daily duties. He rejoiced to watch the unfolding minds of histhree pupils, and especially to train Edred for the life of thecloister, to which already he had been partially dedicated, andtowards which he seemed to incline.And now, eagerly questioned by the boys upon that vexed point ofthe translated Scriptures and their possession by the commonpeople, he looked thoughtfully out before him, and gave his answerin his own poetic fashion."The Word of God, my children, is as a fountain of life. Those whodrink of it drink immortality and joy and peace passing allunderstanding. The Saviour of mankind--Himself the Word of God--hasgiven Himself freely, that all men may come to Him, and, drinkingof the living water, may find within their hearts a living fountainwhich shall cause that they never thirst again. But the questionbefore us is not whether men shall drink of this fountain--we knowthat they must do so to live--but how they shall drink of it; howand in what manner the waters of life shall be dispensed to them."The boys fixed their eyes eagerly upon him. Julian nodded his head,and Edred's eyes grew deep with the intensity of his wish to followthe workings of the mind of his instructor."For that we must look back to the days of our Lord, when He washere upon earth. HOW did He give forth the Word of Life? How did Herule that it was from that time forward to be given to men?""He preached to the people who came to Him," answered Edred, "andHe directed His apostles and disciples to do likewise--to go forthinto all lands and preach the gospel to every creature.""Just so," answered Brother Emmanuel, with an other of his slightpeculiar smiles. "In other words, he intrusted the Word--Himself,the news of Himself--to a living ministry, to men, that through themouths of His apostles and those disciples who had received regularinstruction from Him and from them the world might be enlightenedwith the truth."The boys listened eagerly, with mute attention."Go on," said Edred breathlessly. "Prithee tell us more.""Our blessed Lord and Master laid no charge upon His apostles towrite of Him--to send forth into the world a written testimony. Weknow that the inspired Word is written from end to end by the willof God. It was necessary for the preservation of the truth in itspurity that its doctrines should be thus set down--that thereshould be in existence some standard by which in generations tocome the learned ones of the earth might be able to judge of thepurity of the doctrines preached, and refute heresies and errorsthat might and would creep in; but it was to men, to a livingministry, that our Saviour intrusted the precious truths of Hisgospel, and to a living ministry men should look to have thosetruths unfolded.""I see that point," cried Edred eagerly. "I had never thought of itquite in that way before. Does it so state the matter anywhere inthe Holy Book? I love to gather the truth from its pages. Thou hastnot told us that we are wrong in that.""Nay, under guidance all men should seek to those holy truths; butwill they find the priceless jewel if they seek it without thoseaids our blessed Lord Himself has appointed? Wouldst thou know moreof His will in this matter? Then thou shalt."The monk turned the leaves of the book awhile, and then paused atan open page."On earth, as we have seen, the blessed Saviour intrusted His truthto the care of chosen men. Now let us see how He acted when,ascended into the heavens, He looked down upon earth, and directedfrom thence the affairs of this world. Did He then ordain that awritten testimony was to be prepared and sent forth into all lands?No. What we learn then is that when He ascended into the heavensand received and gave gifts to men, He gave to them apostles,prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers--a living ministryagain, a fourfold living ministry--that by this living ministry,surely typified in the vision of St. John by the four livingcreatures with the fourfold head, the saints were to be perfected,the unity of the faith preserved, and the body of Christ edifiedand kept in its full growth and perfection till He come Himself toclaim the Bride."Edred's eyes were full of vivid intelligence. He followed in theLatin tongue the words as Brother Emmanuel spoke them, and lookingup he asked wistfully:"But where are they now, the apostles and prophets, the evangelistsand pastors? Have we got them with us yet?""We have at least the semblance of them; doubtless but for our ownsins and shortcomings we should have a fuller ministry--a fulleroutpouring of the water of life through those four God-givenchannels by which the Church is to be fed. We have the apostolicoffice ever in exercise in our spiritual head at Rome. St. Peterhas left us a successor, and his throne shall never be empty solong as the world lasts. Now and again the prophetic fire burstsforth in some holy man who has fasted and prayed until the veilbetwixt the seen and the unseen has grown thin. Would to God therewas more light of prophecy in the earth! Perchance in His grace andmercy He will outpour His Spirit once again upon the earth, andgather about his Holiness a band of men lighted by fire from above.In our wandering friars, ever going forth to the people with theword of the gospel, we have the office of evangelist in exercise;and the priest who guides the flock and dwells in the midst of thepeople of the land, surely he is the pastor, the keeper of thesheep. And thus we see that our blessed Saviour's gifts to men havebeen preserved all through these long centuries, and are stillamongst us in greater or less degree; and we can well understandthat having given us these channels, by which His vineyard is to bewatered, by which the living waters are to flow forth, it is notHis will that every man should be his own evangelist or pastor,feeding himself at will, drinking, perhaps to surfeit, of theprecious waters which should be conveyed to him through theappointed channel, but that he should be under dutiful obedienceand submission, and that thus and thus only may unity and peace bepreserved, and the body grow together into its perfect stature andfullness.""I see all that exactly," cried Bertram, "and I will strive to keepit in mind. I mislike the very name of Lollard, and I well knowthat they be a mischievous and pernicious brood, whom it were wellto see exterminated root and branch. Yet no man can fail to seethat they love the Scriptures, and I felt they were in the rightthere. Now I well see that they may love the Word as much as theywill, but that they must still seek to be taught and fed by thosewho are over them in the Church, and not seek to eat and drink (inthe spiritual sense of the word) at their own will and pleasure.That is truly what the Church has ever taught, but I never heard itso clearly explained before."Come, Julian; the sun is losing much of its power now. Let usstroll along the margin of the stream, and see where best we mayfish upon the morrow."Edred, wilt thou come? No; I thought not. Thou art half a monkalready. We will leave thee with Brother Emmanuel to talk more onthese hard matters. I have heard enough to satisfy me, I shallnever want to turn Lollard now. The name was always enough, but nowI see more and more clearly how wrong-headed and wilful they be."Julian, too, had got an answer that completely satisfied him, andhe readily rose to go with his brother. Those two found an hour ortwo of thought and study as much at a time as they cared for. Theycalled their dogs and sallied forth over the fields towards theshady, well-fringed river banks, and Brother Emmanuel was leftalone with his second pupil, Edred, whose eyes were still fixedupon the black lettering of the great Bible open at the lastpassage under discussion.The monk bent an earnest glance upon the boy's face. He saw that anargument which had completely satisfied the other two had notsatisfied this other keener mind. But he asked no questions,leaving the boy to speak or not as he chose. These were days inwhich too much questioning was a dangerous thing. Many men felt asthough they were treading the crust of a volcano, and that a singleunwary step might plunge them headlong into the burning gulf.When even such a man as Bishop Peacock had been threatened with thestake, and sent into perpetual imprisonment, even after having"recanted" his errors, no wonder that all men holding broad orenlightened opinions trembled for themselves. And yet, as thoughtwill not be bound, and the young are ever the most ardent in thepursuit of truth, and the most impatient under the yoke of fettersunwillingly worn, so neither this young monk nor his still moreyouthful companion could be content to drift on without lookinginto the stirring questions of the day for themselves.Edred's mind at this moment was working rapidly and following up atrain of thought as fascinating as it was new. He suddenly turnedback to the very beginning of the book, and began reading tohimself some words he found there. Presently he looked up quicklyinto his instructor's face."Thy words about four channels put me in mind of the four streamswe read of in the beginning, that watered the garden of the Lord.It seemed to me as if perchance there was some connection betwixtthem--that the Lord's plan has ever been the same. Surely He ledforth the children of Israel through the wilderness beneath fourstandards. And here the four streams are all given. But we hear nomore of any of them later, do we, save the river Euphrates. Out ofthe four three seem to have been lost," and the boy raised his eyeswith a perplexed expression and looked earnestly at his teacher.Between those two existed one of those keen bonds of sympathy thatoften enable persons to communicate their thoughts without themedium of words. In a moment the monk had read what was in theboy's mind, and in a fashion he answered as though Edred hadspoken."Thou thinkest that even as some of God's watering rivers ran dry,so some of His channels of grace, whereby He meant all men to bereplenished with heavenly light and grace, may perchance havebecome choked and useless. Is not that thy thought, my son?""My father, is it sin thus to think?" asked Edred, almost beneathhis breath. "I cannot shut mine eyes and mine ears. I have heardwhispers of terrible corruption in high places even at Rome itself.I try not to hear or to think too much, but I cannot help myburning desire to know more of what passes in the world. It was buta short year ago that a godly man coming from foreign lands told usfearful tales of the corruption even of the papal court. O myfather, I fear to whisper it even to thee; but I cannot but ask inmy heart, can the popes be truly apostles? And if not, can we saythat the channel of grace once given to men is open yet for us todrink from? Ah, pardon me if I err! I will do penance for my evilthoughts. But where may we find now those four life-giving streamsby which Christ purposed to keep His body, the Church, nourishedand sustained? Prophets there be none, save here and there a sparkof the old fire. Those travelling friars are sometimes holy men;but, alas! they are bitter foes of the very Church from which theyprofess to be sent out, and are oft laid under the papal ban. Wehave our pastor priests; but do they feed the flock? O my father,how can I walk with closed eyes through this world of sin andstrife? If the channels run dry, if the pastors refuse food to thehungry people, can it be sin if they strive to feed themselves,even though they be something too ignorant to do it wisely andwell?"A very grave, thoughtful, and austere look was stamped upon theface towards which Edred directed his gaze. It was long before hereceived any answer, and then it was but a sorrowful one."My son, I will not blame thee for these thoughts, albeit they becharged with peril in these days. It is human nature thus toquestion and thus to doubt. We may not blind our eyes, though wemust ever strive to chasten our hearts, that we fall not into thecondemnation of those who speak evil of dignities, and bring arailing accusation against those set over them. I, too, have had myperiod of storm-tossed doubts and fears; but I have learned to fixmine eyes upon the Holy One of Israel, who never slumbers norsleeps--upon the crucified Saviour, who has suffered that death ofagony and shame that He may draw all men unto Himself. How He willdo it I know not. How He will open up again the closed channels,and make ready His Church to meet Him and receive Him, I can noteven conjecture. But His word cannot fail; and in His own appointedtime, and in His own appointed way, I verily believe that He willdraw unto Himself all men who have ever called upon His name, andall those unto whom His name has never been proclaimed, and who,therefore, have never rejected Him. In that hope and that belief Itry to rest; and fixing my eyes and thoughts upon Him and Himalone, I strive to forget the chaos and the strife of earth, and tolook upon all men as brothers in Christ, if they will but bow theknee at that thrice holy name."Edred looked at him with wide-open eyes."Heretics call upon the name of Jesus. Thinkest thou that hereticswill be saved? I thought they were doomed to hellfire forever!"The boy spoke in a voice that was little more than a whisper. Hewas almost afraid to hear the answer, lest it should convey a germof the dreaded heresy, and yet how eager he was to know whatBrother Emmanuel really thought."It is not for me to say who will and who will not be saved," hesaid, slowly and thoughtfully; "and we are expressly told thatthere will be punishment for those who fall away from the faith.Yet we are not told that error will be punished with everlastingdeath. And there be places in Holy Scripture which tell us that'whoso believeth and is baptized shall be saved;' and hereticsbelieve that Christ died for the world. It says, again, that thosewho love the Lord are born of God; and shall they perisheverlastingly? My son, the mercies of God are very great; from endto end of this book we are told that. Knowing so much, need we askmore? With Him rests the judgment of all mankind. He alone can readthe heart. Let that thought be enough for us. Whether the sin ofheresy is as vile in His eyes as in those of man, He alone knows;we do not. Let us strive for our own part to keep the unity of thefaith in the bond of peace, and leave all else to Him."As he spoke, Brother Emmanuel gently closed the book, as though toclose the discussion likewise; and Edred, looking up and roundabout him, drawing a long breath meantime, suddenly gave a start,which attracted the attention of his preceptor.A short distance away--how he had got there neither of the pairknew; they had been too much engrossed in their talk to take muchheed of external impressions--was an elderly monk, clad in the samegown and hood as Brother Emmanuel, betokening that he too was ofthe Benedictine order; and his face, shrouded in its cowl, wasturned towards the pair with a very peculiar expression upon it. Asinister smile was in the narrow beady eyes; the features, whichwere coarse and somewhat bloated from luxurious living, were set ina look of ill-concealed malice; and the salutation addressed to thepair when he saw himself perceived had in it something of anincongruous sound."Pax vobiscum!" said the newcomer, lifting his hand as if to imparta blessing.Edred instinctively bent the knee, but Brother Emmanuel's face didnot move a muscle."Hast thou come with a message for me from the reverend father?" heasked quietly."Nay, not for thee. My message was to Sir Oliver; but I will reportto the father how excellently I found thee employed--training thypupils in all godliness and honesty, and in that hatred of heresywhich it behoves all true sons of the Church to cherish."There was a spiteful gleam in the man's eyes as he spoke thesewords that made Edred shiver; but the calm regard of the youngermonk did not waver."I have taught him nothing but what I have heard our good Dean ofSt. Paul's speak before princes and prelates in the pulpit,"answered Brother Emmanuel, not pretending to misunderstand theinnuendo conveyed. "Methinks it would profit many of our brothersin country places to hear what is being thought and taught inOxford and London, in all the great centres of the country. Thereverend father knows well what I hold and what I teach."So clear and steadfast was the light in the young monk's eyes, thatthe regard of the other fell before it. He made a gesture, as if torepudiate the defence as a thing quite superfluous."The piety and orthodoxy of Brother Emmanuel are known far andwide," he answered, in a tone that was half cringing, halfspiteful; "no truer son of the Church than he lives in all theland."And then with another salutation he turned and glided away in thelengthening shadows, whilst Edred turned to Brother Emmanuel withrather a scared face, and asked:"Dost think he heard what we were saying?""Belike he caught a phrase or two," was the answer, spoken gravelybut quite calmly. "I would not speak words of which I am ashamed;at the same time, it is well in these perilous days to use allcaution, for an enemy can well distort and magnify the words hehears, till they sound like rank heresy. For myself I have no fear.I prize not my life greatly, though to die as a heretic, cut offfrom the Church of Christ, is a fearful thing to think of. Yet eventhat might be better than denying the truth--if indeed one believesthe truth to lie without, which assuredly I do not. But thou, myson, would do well to think something less of these matters. Thouart but a child in years, and--""I am quickly rising to man's estate," answered the boy, ratherimpetuously, "and my thoughts will not be chained. I must give themliberty to rove where they will. All men are talking and thinkingof these things, and wherefore not I? But, Brother Emmanuel, tellme, who was yon black-browed brother? Methinks I have seen his facebefore; but beneath the cowl many faces look alike. Who was he? andwherefore looked he so askance at thee?""Brother Fabian loves me not," answered the monk with a slightsmile. "I scarce know how it began; it seemed to commence from theday I entered the priory. I had looked to find things theresomewhat different. Perchance I spoke more than I should, beingyoung and ardent, and fresh from places where a different orderreigned. Brother Fabian holds various offices in the priory. Heliked not my words. Methinks he has never forgotten or forgiven. Hehas always sour looks for me, and ofttimes sneering words. But Iheed them not greatly; they do not touch me near."Edred was looking straight out before him, with a gaze in whichthere was much of shrinking and surprise."Brothers in the same monastery at enmity one with the other!" hesaid slowly, grasping more than had been spoken, with that quickintuition which existed between tutor and pupil. "Some, leadinglives of luxury, indignant with those who would protest againstthem. Brother Emmanuel, my father, my friend, when these thingscome before me, I turn with loathing from the thought of enteringthe life of the cloister; and yet how I long to give myself whollyto the cause of God! How can I judge? how can I choose aright?""Thou must not try to choose," answered the young monk, with atouch of austerity in his tone; "thou must await that leading andthat guiding which never fail those who truly wait upon the blessedSon of God, and strive to do not their will but the will of Him whopleased not Himself. At the foot of His Cross--before the altar,where His precious body and blood are ever abiding in memorial ofHis one sacrifice for sin--there is the place to seek grace andguidance; there is the place where peace may be found. Because manis frail, shall we despise the ordinances of God? Because men areable to make (if such be their will) a hell upon earth even of holyplaces, is that any reason why we shall think scorn of thosesanctuaries, provided by the merciful goodness of God, where menmay flee for shelter from the world, and lead a life of devotionand fasting and prayer? My son, beware of the manifold snares ofthe devil. The young are ever ready to condemn and to revolt. It isthe nature of the unchastened will of man. Be patient, and watchunto prayer. The day will surely come when (if thou wilt but listenfor it) the voice will speak in thine heart, and tell thee whatthou art called upon to do, even as it spoke in mine, and called mefrom the snares and enticements of the world to the haven of thecloister. I know not yet what my work in this world will be; but itis enough that my Lord and Master knows. I am here, abiding in myplace and awaiting my call. May He grant that whensoever andhowsoever that call may come, I may hear it and be ready for it,and may follow the guiding voice even to the end."A rapt look was in the dark eyes. Edred caught the enthusiasm ofthat look, and half unconsciously sank down upon his knee."Bless me, even me also, O my father!" he cried, scarce knowingwhat words he chose; and the thin, strong hand was laid upon hishead."God be with thee and bless thee, my son," said the monk, in grave,steadfast tones; "and may He be thy guide and thy portionhenceforth and forever. May He show thee the way in which He wouldhave thee to go, and give thee grace and strength to follow it untothe end."For a moment deep silence prevailed. Both were rapidly reviewingthe words that day spoken, and the thoughts suggested by the barediscussion of such subjects; and Edred, rising and looking with astrange smile into the monk's face, said softly:"Methinks it would not be hard to die in a righteous cause; but tobe hunted to death through the spite and malice of a treacherousfoe, that would be an evil fate. I would fight with the best memberI possess against such an one, were he to be mine own enemy orthine."A smile crossed Brother Emmanuel's face."Go to, boy! thou art more soldier than monk yet. Methinks thouwouldst fight bravely and well in a good cause. Perchance thatwould be the best and happiest lot for thee--"There be thy brothers coming up from the water. Go join them, andthink not too much for thy years. Be a youth as long as thoumayest. Manhood's cares will come all too fast."With that he turned and went quietly towards the house, whilstEdred went forth to meet his brothers.Chapter IV: The Travelling Preacher.Perhaps it was the memory of those spiteful and malicious glancesbent upon his preceptor by Brother Fabian that suggested to Edredupon the day following to pay a visit to the secret chamber thathad once before so well sheltered a helpless fugitive.The secret of that chamber still remained with the three boys andtheir faithful esquire, Warbel. To no other living soul in thehouse had any of these four ever named the matter. The boys mightnot have been able to give any reason for this reticence towardstheir parents, but the fact remained that they had never revealedthe secret to them, and that although tradition still spoke of acleverly-masked chamber somewhere at Chad, it was now popularlysupposed to have been in that part of the house which had boondemolished during the Wars of the Roses. Children did not chatterto their parents in days of old as they do now. They might lovethem never so well, but they held them in reverence and even inawe. They were silent in their presence, as a rule, unless spokento first, and the habit of conversational intimacy did not grow upuntil a much later period in their lives. Thus the adventures ofWarbel, and his strange midnight visit to their bedchamber, hadnever been told to Sir Oliver or his wife. All they knew was thatthe man had taken refuge from the anger of the Lord of Mortimer inone of their woodmen's huts. They were glad to give him shelter andemployment at Chad, and had never regretted the hospitalityextended to him; for he had proved the most faithful of servants,and his devotion to the boys was so great that they could betrusted anywhere in his keeping.As for the anger of his proud neighbour, Sir Oliver had made lightof that. The Lord of Mortimer could not make any thing out of sosmall a matter, and at that time had other more weighty affairs onhand. Warbel's stories to his fellows of the harshness andtyrannical rule at Mortimer made his own servants more loyal andstanch than ever. Chad was a peaceable and happy abode for all itsinmates, and the need for secret hiding places had so far neverarisen.The boys in years gone by had almost regretted this fact. They hadpictured so vividly how they would hide their father or some friendof his in this secret chamber, should peril menace them from anyquarter, that it had seemed sometimes almost a pity that so securea hiding place should be of so little use, when it might have donesuch excellent service had the need arisen.However, as years sped by and the lads began to know more of life,they ceased to regret that the secret chamber remained without anoccupant. From time to time they visited it, swept out the dust andcobwebs that had accumulated there, and bit by bit collected a fewmore odds and ends of furniture, so that the place now wore a lookof greater comfort and habitation than it had done when they saw itfirst.Once when Edred had been laid up by an accident to his foot, he hadamused himself by making a number of feather pillows from thefeathers of the birds his brothers shot and brought home to him.These feathers were dressed in the proper way by the boysthemselves, and then made up into large pillows or cushions, whichwere then taken up to the secret chamber (at that time thefavourite hobby of the boys), in order to make restful andcomfortable the hard pallet bed, in case any fugitive were forcedto take shelter there. In the same way had several rudely-maderugs, formed of the skins of wild bears taken in the woods, andtanned by the boys in a fashion of their own, found their waythither; and altogether the place had assumed an aspect of somecomfort and even luxury, although it was now several years sinceany further additions had been made to its plenishings.Edred looked round the strange apartment with a thoughtful air ashe emerged into it from the long, dark, twisting passage he hadthreaded with the security of one to whom every winding and turnwas known. It was dim and dark there, but sufficient light filteredin through cracks and cleverly-contrived apertures to render iteasy to move about; and when the eye grew used to the dimness,everything could be seen with pretty fair distinctness."It would not be a bad hiding place," mused the boy, speaking halfaloud. "Methinks over there one could even read without muchtrouble. Yes, without doubt one could; and that crack might bejudiciously enlarged without any peril. It does but give upon theleads behind the main chimney stack, and the tiles would cover anyaperture I made."He took out his large hunting knife from his girdle as he spoke,and worked away awhile in silence. Very soon he had considerablyadded to the amount of light in the strange room. He eyed hishandiwork with considerable satisfaction."That is better. It would be something gloomy to be shut up herewithout light enough to study by; but with books and food one mightspend many a week here and not be overwhelmed with dullness. Theplace is something straight, to be sure, and there is bare room fora tall man to stand upright."Edred drew himself to his full height, and found that his head didnot quite reach the beams which formed the ceiling."I trow Brother Emmanuel could just stand; he is not greatly tallerthan I. And he is marvellous contented with a very little, and hasbeen used to passing days and weeks in the solitude of his cell.Sure this would not be to him an evil place. If he had but a bookor two and the needful food, he would be vastly content."I wonder if he can be in any sort of peril. I liked not the looksor the words of you malicious monk. Our father and mother often saythat these be times when men must walk warily, and ofttimes theytell of godly men even in high places who have fallen into disgraceand been accused of fearful sins. It is not safe in these days tohave for enemies those who are within the pale of the Church--monksand priors, men who are held up as examples and models of truefaith and piety."I know not whether they merit the praise men give to them.Methinks Brother Emmanuel could teach them many things both inprecept and practice. But it is not for me to be the judge in suchmatters; yet if he were in any kind of peril, I would lay down mylife to save him!"The boy's eyes kindled at the thought. He cherished for hispreceptor an ardent and enthusiastic love, and he had his share ofthat chivalrous devotion and self-sacrifice which has been thebrightest ornament of days that have much of darkness and crueltyto disgrace them.His face wore a very earnest look as he set about his homely taskof cleaning and setting in order this secret chamber. He was morethan two hours over his task, for he went through it with unwontedenergy. The place looked almost tempting before he had done withit, and he looked about him with satisfied eyes at the close of hislabours.There was a convenient spout, meant to carry off the rain waterfrom the complex level of the old roof, which made an excellentsubstitute for a dust shoot. It could be got at from this placewithout difficulty, and Edred shot down his rubbish without anytrouble through a funnel-like piece of wood he and his brothers hadcontrived for the purpose many years before. Then he stood quitestill at the aperture whence the soft breeze came blowing in, lostin thought."It doth get very hot here in the summer days," he remarked, "andin especial at this end of the room, where it abuts upon the leads.It is cooler yonder, but then it is also darker. The air and thelight come in at this side, but so does the heat likewise. And howthirsty one gets, too! My throat is parched and dry. I mind me howpoor Warbel suffered in like manner when he was here. Food could bebrought in without trouble. I will amass even now by slow degreessome of those hard oaten cakes that keep good for weeks, and somesalted venison that would last the winter through."But water--how could that be brought? Suppose that we too werewatched; suppose we dared not go through the secret door? Whatwould become of the prisoner?"I must talk to Bertram and Julian about that. Bertram has awonderful gift for getting out of such difficulties; he has amarvellous quick wit. We never thought in old days how the waterwas to be conveyed; we thought a few bottles of wine would last alifetime. But to die of thirst would be worse than to face one'sfoes. I shall not really rest till I have thought how such a dangermight be guarded against."Edred left the place with a thoughtful air. He gained their ownlong sleeping room without adventure. Nobody was ever there at thishour of the day, and he sat down on his bed to think and plan.There his brothers found him later when they came rushing uptumultuously to find him."Ha! thou art there. We have been seeking thee everywhere. Whathast thou been doing, brother?""I have been up to the room," answered the boy. "I have been makingit all ready. I was something disturbed by what chancedyester-afternoon. I told thee of Brother Fabian and his evillooks?"The other two nodded."Yes, verily; but they be brothers of one fraternity. Surely oneBenedictine would not hurt another?""I know not that. I was talking this day with Warbel. He has beenabout in the world. He has seen priests and monks accused of heresythe one by the other; and none are so fearfully persecuted as thosewho wear the tonsure, if men do but suspect them of that sin."Brother Emmanuel a heretic!" cried Bertram, with flashing eyes. "Iwould force the word down the false throat of any who dared to sayso! Brother Emmanuel is a right holy man. Art thou mad, Edred, tothink such a thing?"The boy shook his head doubtfully."I would I were," he replied; "but methinks Brother Emmanuelhimself thinks that peril may menace him. I understand not rightlythese matters; but I saw that yesterday upon his face which showedme that he felt he stood something in peril, albeit he has no fear.He is not of the stuff of which cowards are made."Julian's eyes were wide with affright."They say the Lollards and heretics are to be sought out andburned, and that right soon," he said, in low, awe-struck tones."Some of our people heard it today from those at Mortimer. The Lordof Mortimer has become very zealous to help the priests and monksto scent out all suspected of heresy and make a great example ofthem."Edred, thou dost not think they will take BrotherEmmanuel--and--burn--him?"The last words were little more than a whisper."I will die sooner than see it done!" cried the boy passionately."But in these days no man may say who is safe. Therefore went I upto the chamber this very day to set it in order;" and then he toldhis brothers of the difficulty that had beset him there, and how hefelt no security for any person in hiding there so long as thedifficulty of conveying water to him remained so great.Bertram grasped the situation in a moment. He well knew that if anyperson were suspected of lying hidden in the house, a close watchmight well be kept upon every member of the household, and that itmight be hard indeed to pay more than a very occasional visit tothe prisoner. If, for instance, suspicion were to fall upon theboys in this matter, it would be probable they would be placedunder some restraint; they might be carried off to the priory andforced to do some penance there. It would never do for the prisonerto be entirely dependent upon them for supplies of the preciouscommodity; and yet what else was to be done?"I must think about it," cried Bertram. "I shall never rest till Ihave thought of some method. Would we had not left it so long! Wehave had all these years to make our plans, and we have neverthought of this thing till trouble seems like to be at the verydoors."Still it may but be our fantasy. Neither Brother Emmanuel nor anyother may need the shelter of this room. We will trust it may beso."Yet I will cudgel my brains for a plan. It would be a fearfulthing to know him to be shut up here, and yet to be unable to visithim with the necessaries of life. How poor Warbel drank when heissued forth that night. Methinks I see him now. One would havethought he had never tasted water before.""But we came not to talk of all this," interrupted Julian, who hadbeen evincing a few signs of impatience latterly; "we came to tellof the fair held today and tomorrow at Chadwick. Our father says wemay go thither tomorrow if we will. Warbel says they will bait abull, and perhaps a bear; and that there will be fighting with thequarterstaff and shooting with cross and long bow, and many otherlike spectacles. He will attend us, and we may be off with thelight of day, an we will. That is what we came to tell thee,Edred."Edred was boy enough to be well pleased at this news. Any varietyin the day's round was pleasing to the lads, who found life alittle monotonous, albeit pleasant enough. It was a relief, too, toturn from grave thoughts and anxious forebodings to theanticipation of simpler pleasures, and the boys all ran to seekWarbel and ask him what these village fairs were like; for they hadbeen much interrupted during the recent wars, and only now thatpeace had been for some years established did they begin to reviveand gain their old characteristics.At break of day on the morning following, the little party startedforth on foot to walk the five miles which separated them from thevillage of Chadwick. It was a pleasant enough walk through thegreen forest paths before the heat of the day had come. The threeboys and Warbel headed the party, and were followed by some eightor ten men of various degree, some bent on a day's pleasure forthemselves, others there with a view of attending upon theirmaster's sons.Bertram felt that he could have dispensed with any attendance savethat of Warbel; but Sir Oliver had given his own orders. With sopowerful and jealous a neighbour within easy reach of the village,he felt bound to be careful of his children. They were butstriplings after all, and doubtless his unscrupulous neighbourwould be delighted to hold one or more as a hostage should excusearise for opening hostilities of any kind. He knew well theunscrupulous character of the man with whom he had to deal, and heacted with prudence and foresight accordingly.The little village when reached proved to be all en fete. Rudearches of greenery crossed every pathway to the place, and all thepeople had turned out in their holiday dresses upon the green tojoin in the dances and see the sights. There was a miracle playgoing on in one place, repeated throughout the day to varyinggroups of spectators. In another corner some rude gipsy jugglingwas to be seen, at which the rustic yokels gazed with wonderingeyes. There were all the usual country games in full swing; and thebaiting of a great bull, which was being led to the centre of thegreen, attracted the attention of the bulk of the spectators, anddrew them away from other sports. The actors in the miracle playthrew off their dresses to come and witness this delightfulpastime, and hardly any of those present seemed to regard for amoment the sufferings of the poor brute, or the savage nature ofthe whole performance.Edred, however, belonged to that very small minority, and whilsthis two brothers pressed into the ring, he wandered away elsewhereto see what was to be seen. His attention was attracted by a littleknot of persons gathered together under the shade of a great oaktree, rather far away from the green that was the centre ofattraction. The shade looked inviting, now that the heat wasgrowing greater, and the boy felt some curiosity to know what wasthe attraction which kept this little group so compact and quiet.On the green were shouting and yelling and noise of everydescription; but Edred could hear no sound of any kind proceedingfrom this little group till he approached quite near, and then hewas aware of the sound of a single voice speaking in low tones andvery earnestly.When he got nearer still he saw that the speaker was a littlehunchback, and that he had in his hand a small book from which hewas reading aloud to the people about him. And this fact surprisedthe boy not a little, for it was very unusual for any person in thelower ranks of life to be able to read; and yet this man wasevidently in poor circumstances, for his clothes were shabby andhis hands were hardened by manual toil.Drawing nearer in great curiosity, Edred became aware that what thehunchback was reading was nothing more or less than a part of thegospel narrative in the English tongue, to which the people abouthim were listening in amazement, and with keen curiosity andattention.Edred was familiar enough with the Latin version of the Scriptures,and had studied them under the guidance of Brother Emmanuel withgreat care and attention; but he had never yet heard the words readout in their entirety in his native tongue, and he was instantlystruck and fascinated by the freshness and suggestiveness of thefamiliar language when used for this purpose. He was conscious thatit gave to the words a new life and meaning; that it seemed, as itwere, to drive them home to the heart in a new fashion, and to makethem the property of the listener as they could never be when adead language was used as the medium of expression. He felt astrange thrill run through him as the story of Calvary was thusread in the low, impassioned tones of the hunchback; and he was notsurprised to see that tears were running down many faces, and thatseveral women could hardly restrain their sobs.Now and again the hunchback paused and added a few explanatorywords of his own; now and again he broke forth into a rhapsody notlacking in a certain rude eloquence, in which he besought hishearers to come to their Saviour with their load of sin--theirSaviour, who was the one and only Mediator between God and man.Were not His own words enough--"Father, forgive them"? What need,then, of the priest; the confessional; the absolution of man? ToGod and to Him alone was the remission of sins. Let those who lovedtheir Lord seek to Him, and see what bliss and happiness resultedfrom this personal bond between the erring soul and the lovingSaviour.Edred shivered slightly as he stood, yet something in theimpassioned gestures of the hunchback, and the strange enthusiasticlight which shone in his eyes, attracted him in spite of himself.That this was rank heresy he well knew. He knew that one of theLollard tenets had always been that confession was a snare devisedof man and not appointed by God. Edred himself could have quotedmany passages from Holy Writ which spoke of some need of confessionthrough the medium of man, and of sins remitted by God-appointedministers. He had been well instructed in such matters by BrotherEmmanuel, who, whatever his enemies might allege against him, was astanch son of the Church, even though he might be gifted with awide tolerance and a mind open to conviction; and his pupil was notto be easily convinced against his will. Nor was Edred convinced ofthe justice and truth of many things that this ignorant man spoke;but what did strike him very greatly was his intense earnestness,his fiery and impassioned gestures, the absolute confidence hepossessed in the righteousness of his own cause, and his utterfreedom from any kind of doubt or fear--the eloquence of one ofnature's orators that carries away the heart far more than thestudied oratory which is the result of practice and artifice.Whilst the man spoke, Edred felt himself carried away in spite ofhis inner consciousness that there was a flaw in the argument ofthe preacher. He was intensely interested by the whole scene. Hecould not help watching the faces of the group of which he madeone, watching the play of emotion upon them as they followed withbreathless attention their instructor's words, and drank in hisfiery eloquence as though it were life-giving water.And was it wonderful this should be so? the youth asked of himself.Were not these poor people fairly starving for want of spiritualfood? and what food did they receive from the hands of their parishpriest? Edred knew the old man well. He was a kind-heartedsexagenarian, and in those days that was accounted an immense age.He mumbled through the mass on Sundays; he baptized the childrenand buried the dead when need arose; and if sent for by some personin extremity, would go and administer the last rites of the Church.But beyond that his duties did not go, and no living soul in theplace remembered hearing him speak a word of instruction oradmonition on his own account. He had a passion for gardening, andspent all his spare time with his flowers; and his people wenttheir way as he did his, and their lives never touched on anypoint.Such being the case, was it wonderful that the people should comewith eagerness to hear of the Saviour from whomsoever would tellthem of Him? Edred well remembered Brother Emmanuel's words aboutthe four God-given channels of grace--the living ministry by whichHe had meant His Church to be perfected. But how when the streamsgrew choked? how when the ministry had become a dead letter? Wasthe Church, were the people, to die of inanition? Might not Godpardon them for listening to any messenger who came with His nameupon his lips? Surely He who lived in the heavens would pardon themeven if it were sin, seeing that it was the instinctive love of Hisown wandering sheep which brought them crowding round any shepherdwho would teach them of Him, even though he did not come in theGod-directed order.Some such thoughts in a more chaotic form surged through Edred'shead as he stood listening, almost causing him to lose the words ofthe preacher, though the tenor of his discourse was plain. Healmost wished he might enter into a discussion with thisenthusiast, and point out to him where he thought him extravagantand wrong; but young as he was, Edred yet knew something of thefutility of argument with those whose minds are made up, andcaution withheld him from entering into any argument with one whowas plainly a Lollard preacher. So, after listening with sympathyand interest for a long while, he quietly stole away again.The bull baiting was over by this time. The games and other sportswere recommencing with greater energy after this brief interruption.The miracle play was again represented, and Edred stood a few minutesto watch, thinking within his heart that this representation, halfcomical, half blasphemous (though the people who regarded it seemedin no way aware of this), was a strange way of bringing home therealities of the Scriptures, when it could be done so far morefaithfully and eloquently by simply reading the gospel words in thetongue of the common people.His eye roved from the actors, with their mincing words andartificial gestures, to the group still collected beneath the tree,and he could not but contrast the two methods in his own mind, andwonder for a moment whether the Lollards could be altogether sodesperately wicked as their enemies would make out.He was half afraid of allowing himself to think too much on suchthemes, and went in search of his brothers. He found Warbel lookingout for him in some anxiety. He had missed the boy for some littlewhile from his charge, and as the field was filling fast withfollowers and servants wearing the Mortimer livery, he was glad tohave the three boys all together beneath his care.He would have been glad to get them to leave the place, but Bertramwould not hear of it. He wished to try his own skill at some of thesports; and Julian, of course, must needs follow his example.The skill and address of the Chadgrove brothers won the heartyadmiration of the rustics, but it also brought them more than once intorivalry and collision with some of Mortimer's gentlemen-at-arms, whowere not best pleased to be overmatched by mere striplings. It was alsogalling and irritating to them to note the popularity of these ladswith the rustics. Any success of theirs was rewarded by loud shoutingand applause, whilst no demonstration of satisfaction followed any featperformed by those wearing the livery of Mortimer. And if the ladsscored a triumph over any of these latter, the undisguised delight ofthe beholders could not pass unnoticed by the vanquished.Altogether there were so much jealousy and ill will aroused thatlittle scuffles between the followers of Chad and Mortimer hadalready taken place in more than one part of the field. Warbel wasgetting very uneasy, and had persuaded Edred to use his influencewith his brothers to return home before any real collision shouldhave occurred, when a great tumult and shouting suddenly arose tointerrupt the whispered colloquy, and Edred saw a great rush beingmade in the direction of the oak tree, where the hunchback preacherhad been keeping his station the whole day long, always surroundedby a little knot of listeners.Shouts and yells were filling the air, the voices being those ofMortimer's following."A Lollard, a Lollard! A heretic! Down with him! Away with him! Tothe fire with him! A Lollard, a Lollard!"A deep flush overspread Edred's face. He made a spring forward; butWarbel laid a detaining hand upon his arm."It is no case for us to interfere in," he said, with clouded brow."If they have a heretic to deal with we must not meddle. It is notEngland's way for a score to attack one; but we must not interposebetwixt Mortimer and a heretic. That would be too much peril."But almost before the man had done speaking Edred broke away,crying out excitedly: "My brothers, my brothers! they are there inthe thick of it!" and with a groan of terror and dismay Warbelrecognized the voice of Bertram raised in angry scorn."Stand back, you cowards! Who ever heard of fifty men against one,and he a cripple? The first who touches him I strike dead. Aheretic! Pooh! nonsense. He is but a poor travelling peddler withhis pack. See, here is the pack to speak for itself. For shame tomar a merry holiday in this unmannerly fashion! No; I will not givehim up! Ye are no better than a pack of howling, ravening wolves. Iam the Lord of Chad, and I will see that no violence is done thisday. Back to your sports, ye unmannerly knaves. Are ye fit fornothing but to set upon one helpless man and worry him as dogsworry their helpless prey?"Howls, execrations, oaths followed freely; but the village peoplewere to a man with their young lord, and the scions of Mortimerfelt it by instinct."Who is he? Whence came he?" was being asked on all sides; but nonecould give an answer. He was a stranger to the village, but allthose who had been drinking in his words rallied round him, anddeclared he was but a simple peddler whose wares they had beenbuying; and Bertram, who really thought so, stood beside the tree,opened the bundle, and showed the innocent nature of the wares.His brothers had forced their way to his side by this time, andhelped to make a ring round the poor hunchback; and Edred kept avery sharp eye upon the emptying of the pack, resolved if thereshould be any book at the bottom to contrive that it should notreach the eyes of any of the vindictive followers of Mortimer.But there was nothing of the sort to be seen. The man was both toopoor and too wary to carry such dangerous things with him. His ownthin volume had been slipped into some secret receptacle about hisperson, and his calmness of bearing helped to convince all who wereopen to conviction that he was innocent of the charge broughtagainst him.With dark, lowering faces, and many muttered threats, the Mortimerretainers drew off, seeing that with public feeling dead againstthem they could not prevail to work their will upon the intendedvictim. But Warbel was made very anxious by the words he heardopenly spoken on all sides, and he would have given much to havehindered this act of Bertram's, generous and manly though he knewit to have been."It is ill work drawing down the charge of heresy," he remarked, ashe got the boys at last in full march homeward. "Any other chargeone can laugh to scorn; but no man may tell where orthodoxy endsand heresy begins. Godly bishops have been sent to prison, andpriests to the stake. How may others hope to escape?""Tush!" answered Bertram lightly; "there was never a heretic atChad yet, and never will be one, I trow. Was I to see a poorcripple like that done to death without striking a blow in hisdefence--he in Chadwick, of which my father is lord of the manor?Was I to see Mortimer's men turning a gay holiday into a scene ofhorror and affright? Never! I were unworthy of my name had I notinterposed. The man was no heretic, and if he had been--""Have a care, sir, how thou speakest; have a care, I entreat thee!Thou knowest not what ears may be listening!" cried Warbel, in areal fright.Bertram laughed half scornfully."I have no need to be ashamed of what I think. I am a true son ofthe Church, and fear not what the vile Mortimer scum may say. Butto pleasure thee, good Warbel, I will say no more. We will make ourway home with all speed, and tell the tale to our father. I doubtnot he will say it was well done. The Lord of Chad would ever havethe defenceless protected, and stand between them and the false andtreacherous bloodhounds of Mortimer. I have no fear that he willblame me. He would have done the same in my place.""I trow he would," answered Warbel in a low voice; "but that doesnot make the deed done without peril of some sort following to thedoer."Chapter V: A Warning.Sir Oliver and his wife listened with some anxiety to the boys'story of the rescue of the peddler. Bertram observed the cloud uponhis father's brow, and eagerly asked if he had done wrong."I say not so, my son," replied the knight. "I would ever have achild of mine merciful and just--the protector of the oppressed,and the champion of the defenceless; nevertheless--""And it was those bloodhounds of Mortimer's who were setting uponhim," broke in Julian vehemently. "What right had they to molesthim? Could we of Chad, upon our own soil, stand by and see it done?I trow, father, that thou wouldst have done the same hadst thoubeen there."A smile flitted over the face of the knight. He loved to see thegenerous fire burning in his boys' eyes; but for all that his facewas something anxious as he made reply:"Belike I should, my son, albeit perhaps in a something lessvehement fashion. My authority would have served to keep down riot,and the charge against the peddler could have been forthwithexamined, and if found false the man could then have been sent onhis way in safety. But it is dangerous work just now to appear toside with those against whom the foul charge of heresy is brought.Knowest thou--know any of ye--what gave rise to the suddensuspicion?"Edred, who knew much more of the real nature of the peddler'soccupation that day, kept his lips close sealed. He would not forworlds have told what he had seen and heard. His brothers wereplainly ignorant of the peddler's exhortation, reading, andpreaching. It was not for him to add to the anxieties of hisparents.Julian was the first to answer the question."It was but the idle spite of the people of Mortimer," he answered."They had baited the bull and the bear, and they had the mind tobait or burn a heretic whilst their blood was up, as a fit end totheir day's pleasuring. I saw them prowling round the tree wherethe fellow was talking to the women and showing his wares; andsuddenly they raised the shout. I called out to Bertram thatMortimer's people were bent on a mischief, and he sprang to thepeddler's side before any had touched him, and we disappointed thehell hounds of their prey. He had nothing in his pack but suchwares as all peddlers have; and the people vowed he had done naughtall the day but sell to all who came. It would have been sin andshame for us of Chad to have stood by to see him hounded perhaps todeath. We could not choose but balk those evil men of their will.None of our blood could have stood by to see such ill done!""I cannot blame ye, my sons," said the knight. "Ye have the bloodof your forefathers in your veins, and it goes against all of us atChad to see injustice and unrighteousness committed. I do but wishthe cry raised against yon man had been anything else than that ofheresy. The priests and magistrates are very busy now searching outall those suspected of that vile sin, and those who shelter themare accounted as guilty as those who are proved tainted. Our foe ofMortimer is very zealous in the good cause, and will not scruple toemploy against us every weapon in his power. It would be anexcellent thing in his eyes to show how mine own children had stoodup to defend a Lollard heretic. I would we knew something moreanent this man and his views."Warbel, didst thou know him? Is he anyone known in and aboutChad?""I never saw his face before, sir," answered Warbel. "I know not somuch as his name. I had thought of making some inquiries of thevillage folks. All I noted was that he seemed always to have plentyof persons around and about him, and his wares were nothing veryattractive. Still, it is often the tales peddlers tell and the waythey have with them that keeps a crowd always about them. Some ofthe folks of the place must know who and what he is.""Yes, verily; and it would be well for thee to ride over tomorrowand make all needful inquiry. It would set my mind at rest to knowthat there was no cause of complaint against him. We cannot beblind to the fact that heretical doctrines are widely spread bythose purporting to be hawkers and peddlers. Yet there must be manyhonest men who would scorn to be so occupied, and who know not eventhe name of these pestilent heresies."And with that charge the knight tried to dismiss the subject fromhis mind; whilst Edred went to bed feeling terribly uneasy, anddreamed all night of the secret chamber, and how the time came whenthey were all forced to take refuge in it from the hatred of theLord of Mortimer and his bloodthirsty followers.But not even to his brothers did he tell all that he had heard andall that he knew. The words of the gospel in the familiar languageof his country haunted him persistently. He felt a strange wish tohear more, although he believed the wish to be sin, and stroveagainst it might and main. Some of the passages clung tenaciouslyto his memory, and he fell asleep repeating them. When he woke thewords were yet in his mind, and they seemed to get between him andthe words of his task that day when the boys went to their tutorfor daily instruction.Brother Emmanuel had never found Edred so inattentive and absentbefore. He divined that the boy must have something on his mind,and let him alone. He was not surprised that he lingered when theothers had gone, and then in a low voice asked his preceptor if hewould meet him in the chantry, as he felt he could not be happytill he had made confession of a certain matter, done penance, andreceived absolution.A request of that sort never met a denial from the monk. He sentEdred to the chantry to pray for an hour, and met him there at theend of that time to listen to all he had to say.Edred's story was soon told--nothing held back, not even theinnermost thoughts of his heart--and the expression of the facebeneath the enshrouding cowl was something strange to see.It was long before the monk spoke, and meantime Edred lay prostrateat his feet, thankful to transfer the burden weighing him down tothe keeping of another, but little guessing what the burden was tohim to whom he made this confession.Well did Brother Emmanuel know and recognize the peril ofentertaining such thoughts, longings, and aspirations as were nowassailing the heart of this unconscious boy. That there was sin inall these feelings he did not doubt; that heavy penance must bedone for them he would not for a moment have wished to deny. Butyet when he came to place reason in the place of the formulas ofthe Church in which he had been reared, he knew not how to condemnthat longing after the Word of God which was generally the firststep towards the dreaded sin of heresy.No one more sincerely abhorred the name and the sin of heresy. Whenmen denied the presence of the living God in the sacraments of theChurch, or attacked its time-honoured practices in which the heartof the young monk was bound up, then the whole soul of theenthusiast rose up in revolt, and he felt that such blasphemerswell deserved the fiery doom they brought upon themselves. But whentheir sin was possessing a copy of the living Word; when all thatcould be alleged against them was that they met together to read thatWord which was denied to them by their lawful pastors and teachers,and which they had no opportunity of hearing otherwise--then indeeddid it seem a hard thing that they should be so mercilessly condemnedand persecuted.Yet he could not deny that this reading and expounding of theScriptures by the ignorant and unlearned led almost invariably tothose other sins of blasphemy and irreverence which curdled thevery blood in his veins. Again and again had his heart burnedwithin him to go forth amongst the people himself; to take uponhimself and put in practice the office of evangelist, which he knewto be a God-appointed ministry, and yet which was so seldomworthily fulfilled, and himself to proclaim aloud the gospel, thatall might have news of the Son of God, yet might be taught toreverence the holy sacraments more rather than less for the sake ofHim who established them upon earth, and to respect the priesthood,even though it might in its members show itself unworthy, becauseit was a thing given by Christ for the edification of the body, andbecause He Himself, the High Priest passed into the heavens, mustneeds have His subordinate priests working with Him and by Him onearth.Again and again had longings such as these filled his soul, and hehad implored leave to go forth preaching and teaching. But he hadnever won permission to do this. The request had been treated withcontempt, and he himself had been suspected of ambition and otherunworthy motives. He had submitted to the will of his superiors, ashis vow of obedience obliged him to do; but none the less did hisheart burn within him as he saw more and more plainly how men werethirsting for living waters, and realized with ever-increasingintensity of pain and certainty that if the Church herself wouldnot give her children to drink out of pure fountains, they wouldnot be hindered from drinking of poisoned springs, and thus drawdown upon themselves all manner of evils and diseases.He had never doubted for a moment the pureness of the source fromwhich he himself drank. He was not blind to the imperfections manyand great of individuals in high places, and the corruptions whichhad crept within the pale of the Church, but these appeared to himincidental and capable of amendment. He never guessed at any deeperpoison at work far below, tainting the very waters at their source.He was in all essential points an orthodox son of Rome; but he hadimbibed much of the spirit of the Oxford Reformers, of whom Coletwas at this time the foremost, and his more enlightened outlookseemed to the blind and bigoted of his own order to savoursomething dangerously of heresy.He did not know himself seriously suspected. His conscience was tooclear, his devotion to the Church too pure, to permit of his easilyfearing unworthy suspicions. He knew himself no favourite with thestately but self-indulgent Prior of Chadwater; knew that BrotherFabian, whom he had once sternly rebuked for an act of open sin,was his bitter enemy. But he had not greatly heeded this, strong inhis own innocence, and he had been far happier at Chad in the moretruly pure atmosphere of that secular house than in the so-calledsanctity of the cloister.And now he found his own thoughts, aspirations, and yearningsrepeated in the mind of his favourite pupil, and he was confrontedby a problem more difficult to solve than any that had met himbefore. In his own case he felt he had a compass to steer by--therestraint and guidance of his vows and his habit to help him. Buthow would it be with this ardent and imaginative boy? His mind wasstruggling to free itself from artificial trammels. To what goalmight not that wish lead?Earnestly he looked upon the bowed form at his feet, and in hiseyes there was a great compassion. But his lips pronounced, withsternness and decision, the words of the heavy penance imposed, andat the end of the prescribed formulas he raised the boy and lookedsearchingly into his face."My son," he said, very gently yet very impressively, "rememberthat the first sin that entered into the world was the sin ofdisobedience. Remember that Satan's most powerful weapon is the onewhich he employed towards our first mother when he bid her eat ofthe tree of knowledge, because that knowledge is good--a God-giventhing--when he persuaded her that God was wrong in keeping anythinghidden from her that in itself was good. The same sin by whichdeath entered the world has abounded there ever since. God and theSon of God and the Church have always taught that there be certainthings hidden, only to be revealed to man by God or through theordinances of the Church, not to be sought after through curiosityby unlettered men themselves. Yet for as much as Satan is never atrest, and can transform himself on occasion into an angel of light,he is ever present with men urging them on to pry into these hiddenmysteries and to make light of the ordinances of God. He puts intotheir mouth words similar to those by which he tempted the woman toher fall, and men listen greedily as our first mother did, and areled into destruction when they think they are walking forth intothe light of day."My son, beware of this sin; beware of this temptation. Rememberthe many solemn warnings against disobedience contained in the Wordof God; remember how obedience is insisted on throughout that holyvolume. Thou mayest not always see the reason--thou mayest notalways recognize the authority; but remember that there is ablessing upon those who obey, and be not in haste to break the bondunder which thou wast born, remembering who has placed thee wherethou art, and who has bidden us give all dutiful obedience to thepowers that be."Edred made a deep reverence, crossed himself silently in token ofsubmission, and prostrated himself upon the step of the altar, tolie there fasting till set of sun as one part of his penance. Witha murmured prayer and blessing the monk left him, hoping that hehad spoken a word of seasonable warning to one whose heart wasenkindled with ardent devotion, whilst his active mind and vividimagination were in danger of leading him into perilous paths.No questions were asked of Edred respecting this penance, whichtook him away from his ordinary occupations during the chief partof the two following days. He and Brother Emmanuel alone knew thereason for it, and it was against the traditions of the house thatany open notice should be taken by others.The episode of the peddler and the outbreak with the followers ofMortimer had begun to fade somewhat from the minds of those atChad. No complaint had reached that house from Mortimer's Keep, ashad been expected, and it was hoped that the thing would never beheard of again.Yet it was with something of a sinking heart that Sir Oliver heardthe third day that the Prior of Chadwater desired speech of him;and as he mounted his horse and summoned his servants about him, hewondered, not without considerable uneasiness, what this summonsmight mean.He had always been on good terms with the handsome prior of theBenedictine monastery. The choicest of the game, the fattest of thebucks slain in the forest, the chiefest specimens of his wife'sculinary triumphs, always found their way to the prior's table, andan excellent understanding had always been maintained between thetwo houses. But the knight had observed of late that the prior hadbecome more slack in those visits of friendly courtesy which oncehad been common enough between them; and when he had presentedhimself at the monastery, he had not been quite certain that hiswelcome was as cordial as heretofore. It was not until latterlythat this had caused him any uneasiness--it had taken him somewhile to feel sure that it was anything but his own fantasy; but hehad just begun to feel that something was amiss, and now thissummons seemed to him to have an evil import.However, there was nothing for it but to go; and a clear consciencekeeps a man bold even in face of greater peril than was likely toassail him now. He thought it probable that some rumour of the stiron the fair day had reached the ecclesiastic, and that he wanted anaccount of it in detail. Sir Oliver was quite prepared to give himthat, and entered the presence of the prior with a bold front andan air of cordial courtesy such as he was wont to wear in thepresence of this dignitary.There was nothing alarming in the prior's manner. He received hisguest graciously, bid him be seated in the best chair reserved forthe use of guests, and asked him of the welfare of his householdwith benevolence and friendly interest. But after all that had beensaid, his face took another look, and he brought up the subject ofthe travelling peddler or preacher, and asked the knight what hissons meant by standing champions to a notable and perniciousLollard heretic.The knight started at the words, and disclaimed any such knowledgeboth on behalf of himself and his sons. He told the tale as Bertramand Julian had told it him; and there was such sincerity in hismanner, and his character both for orthodoxy and for scrupuloustruthfulness in word and deed was so widely known and respected,that the prior's brow unbent somewhat, and he looked less stern andsevere."I believe your story, Sir Knight," he said. "I believe that yoursons sinned in ignorance. But none the less is it true that theyhave stood champions for a pestilent heretic; and that is anoffence not likely to escape the vengeful notice of the Lord ofMortimer, who is always on the lookout for a cause of complaintagainst person or persons at Chad.""That is very true," replied Sir Oliver, thoughtfully and gravely."I was greatly vexed when I heard of the affair, and chided my boysfor their hot-headed rashness. Howbeit there be many there totestify that the man was at that time but hawking his wares, and mysons could not know that he was a secret heretic and Lollard.""Nay, but when that cry was raised they should not have stood athis side as his champions without more knowledge of the truth. Theman is now known to have been preaching well nigh the whole daylong, reading portions of those accursed translations of Wycliffe'swhich are damnation to all who possess them or listen to them, andexpounding thereupon in the fashion that sends persons raving madwith the poison of heresy. The man is in hiding somewhere in thewoods about; but he will soon be caught and handed over to thesecular power to be doomed to death. And I like not the story ofyour sons' part in all this; it hath an ugly look."Sir Oliver hid his anxiety beneath a cloak of dignified submission.He well knew the best way of putting things straight with theprior."I greatly grieve over the hotheadedness of the lads, but I willgladly make such amends as lies in my power. They sinned inignorance, as you, reverend father, believe, and for such sins theindulgence of the Church may be won by the payment of such sum asshall be thought right. If you will tell me what I ought to give topurchase this indulgence, I will do my utmost to meet the justclaim; and Holy Church shall be richer and not poorer for thetrespass unwittingly made by the sons of Chad."The prior looked pleased at this ready suggestion, and named a sumwhich, though sufficiently heavy, was within Sir Oliver's means,and which he promised should be immediately paid. He knew that theprior, though a man fond of money, and somewhat greedy in gainingpossession of all he could, was not treacherous or unjust; and thatif he had accepted this sum as the price of the pardon of the boys'escapade, he would stand their friend, and not allow them to bepersecuted by Mortimer for the same offence, should the matter everbe brought up against them again.Indeed, now that the arrangement had been so amicably entered into,Sir Oliver was rather glad that the subject had been broached. Theprior was the most powerful man in the county, and to have him fora friend was everything. It was his game to hold the balance verynicely betwixt the owners of Mortimer and Chad, keeping his neutralposition, and not permitting either party to overstep the limitsbeyond a certain extent. After what had just passed, he feltassured that the prior would not permit his boys to be harried oraccused of countenancing heresy by their enemy, and he was wellpleased at the interview and its result.He rose now as if to go, but the prior motioned him to resume hisseat."There is yet another matter upon which I would speak to you," hesaid. "You have beneath your roof one of our younger brethren,Brother Emmanuel. How have you found him comport himself since hehas been free from the restraints of the cloister?"The knight looked surprised at the question."He is in all ways a very godly and saintly youth," he replied. "Heinstructs my sons after an excellent fashion, keeps the hours ofthe Church with a scrupulous precision I have never seen equalled,and instructs all who come to him for advice or assistance in amanner that makes him beloved of all. Whenever I have talked withhim or gone to him for spiritual counsel, I have been greatlystruck by his spiritual insight, his purity of thought, hisearnestness of mind, and his knowledge of the Holy Scriptures."The prior shifted a little in his seat, and coughed behind his handsomewhat dubiously."He was ever prone to observe the hours well. He lived blamelesslyhere in all outward observances; but as for his knowledge of theHoly Scriptures, it may be that it goes something too far. It iswhispered abroad that some of his words savour strongly of thosevery Lollard heresies which are about to be put down with fire andsword. Hast thou heard and seen naught of that?"A thrill of indignation ran through Sir Oliver's frame. It was onlyby an effort that he restrained a hasty exclamation. He well knewthat the wave of enlightened feeling rising within the Churchherself had found no echo in the remoter parts of the kingdom,where bigotry and darkness and intolerance still reigned supreme.He was perfectly aware that the most enlightened sons of the Churchwho had dared to bid the people study the Word of God, andespecially to study it as a whole, would have been denounced asheretics had they lifted up their voices in many parts of thekingdom. This very enlightened understanding, which was so marked afeature in Brother Emmanuel, had been one of the strongest bondsbetween him and his patron, and it seemed little short of monstrousto the knight to hear such an accusation brought against one whohad lived a godly and blameless life, had observed far morerigorously all the laws of the Church than the prior or thefraternity thought of doing, and was a far truer and better sonthan they ever attempted to be.But he restrained his indignation, and only answered very calmly:"I have seen naught of it; indeed, I have seen so much to thecontrary, that methinks it is but an idle tale, not worth yourreverence's attention. In every matter, word or deed, BrotherEmmanuel is faithful to his vows and to his calling. He is an ableinstructor of youth; and were your reverence to examine him asstrictly as possible, I do not believe that any cause of offence,however trivial, could be found against him.""I am well pleased to hear such good testimony," returned theprior, who was regarding his visitor with a scrutiny not altogetheragreeable to the knight. "At the same time, it is not always wellfor a monk to remain too long away from the cloister, and a changeof instructor is ofttimes better for the young. I have beenthinking that it might be well to recall Brother Emmanuel, and sendin his place Brother Fabian, in whom I repose the greatestconfidence. How would such a change meet your good pleasure? IfBrother Emmanuel is in need of penance, it can better be imposedhere than elsewhere--and by all I hear it seems to me that hestands something in need of the discipline of the monastery; andBrother Fabian would make an excellent substitute as an instructorfor the lads."Whilst the prior was speaking, thought had been rapid with SirOliver, and something in the prior's look--a subtlety and almostcruelty about the lines of the mouth--warned him that there was inthis proposition that which boded evil to someone.It flashed across him that Brother Emmanuel was perhaps to be madea victim of ecclesiastical tyranny and cruelty. He knew that theascetic young monk had been no favourite with his brethren atChadwater; and if they could bring against him some charge ofheresy, however trifling, it was like enough that he might besilently done to death, as others of his calling had been for lessfearful offences. Monastic buildings held their dark secrets, asthe world was just beginning to know; and only a short while backhe had heard a whisper that it was not wise for a monk to be toostrict in his hours and in his living. Then again, Brother Fabianwas a coarse, illiterate man, utterly unfit to be the guide andinstructor of youth. Sir Oliver had not dined at the prior's tableand spent hours in his company for nothing, and he knew many of themonks tolerably well. Brother Fabian was the one he liked theleast; indeed he had a strong dislike and distrust of the man, andwas well aware that the ecclesiastical habit was the only thingabout him that savoured of sanctity or the monastic life. He wouldnot have allowed the contaminating presence of such a man near hissons, even had he been indued with the needful learning for thetask of instructor. As it was, he knew that the monk could barelyspell through his breviary, and it was plain that the prior musthave another reason for wishing to induct him into the house.Nor was the reason difficult to divine. It was not as an instructorbut as a spy that Brother Fabian was to come. The whispersabroad--doubtless spread industriously by his vengeful foe--had notbeen without effect, and men had begun to suspect that hishousehold was tainted with heresy. Brother Emmanuel was suspected,his sons were probably suspected as being his pupils, and possiblysome other members of his household too. Brother Fabian was to besent to act as spy, and if bribed (as was most probable) by theLord of Mortimer, would doubtless find some cause of offence whichcould be twisted into an accusation of heresy against someonethere.It was difficult for Sir Oliver to see his way all in a moment. Tooppose this scheme or to submit to it appeared alike dangerous. Hisindependence and honest English pride revolted against any attemptto coerce him in his domestic arrangements, or to submit tointerference there, even from the ministers of the Church.But it was needful to walk warily, and the prior was watching himas a cat does a mouse."Will you give me a few days to consider this matter?" he asked, inas easy a tone as he could. "Your reverence knows that changes arenot of themselves welcome to me; and my sons have made suchprogress with Brother Emmanuel that I am something loath to partwith him. Also, they are at this moment going through a course ofstudy which none other could conclude with the same advantage.Brother Fabian is doubtless an excellent brother of his order, buthe has scarce the same learning as Brother Emmanuel. Nevertheless,I will well consider the change proposed, and give it all dutifulheed. But I should like to speak with my wife anent the matter, andlearn her will. It is not a matter of pressing haste, by what Ihave gathered from your words?""No, not one of pressing haste. Yet I would not long delay,"answered the prior. "I may not speak too openly, but there bereasons why I would have Brother Emmanuel beneath this roof oncemore. I will leave thee one week to consider and to get the courseof study completed. At the week's end, methinks, I shall beconstrained to bid Brother Emmanuel return home. But if all be wellafter a short time has sped by, he may return again to thee."Sir Oliver was looking full at the handsome but crafty face of theprior, and as the last words passed his lips he saw a flicker inthe eyes which made him say within his heart:"If Brother Emmanuel once re-enters these walls, he will neversally forth again. Mischief is meant him; of that I am convinced.What must I do? Must I give him up to his death? And how can I savehim, even if I would?"These thoughts were surging in his heart as he rode home. The perilhe had feared against those of his own name and race had beenaverted. The payment of what was practically a heavy fine wouldsecure to the boys immunity from the results of their rashness; butwith the monk it was far different. What had aroused the animosityof the fraternity, and why mischief was planned against him, SirOliver could not divine; but that something had occurred to arouseit he could not doubt.No sooner had he reached home than he sought Brother Emmanuel inhis own bare room, and laid before him the account of what hadpassed.A strange look crossed the young monk's face."Then it is known!" he said simply."What is known?""That I am the author of a certain pamphlet, written some whileago, and taken to Germany to be printed, giving an account of someof the corruptions and abuses that have stolen into the Church, andin especial into the monasteries and religious houses of this land.I could not choose but write it. If the Church is to be saved, itcan only be by her repudiation of such corruptions, and by aprocess of self cleansing that none can do for her. I always knewthat if suspected my life would pay the forfeit; but I know not howthe authorship has been discovered. Yet the great ones of the landhave ways we know not of; and if the truth is not known, it issuspected. I am to go back to the priory; but once there, I shallnever go forth again. Yet what matter? I always knew if the thingwere known my life would .pay the forfeit. I wrote as the Spiritbid me; I know that God was with me then. I am ready to lay down mylife in a good cause; I am not afraid what man can do unto me."Sir Oliver looked into that young face, which the martyr spiritilluminated and glorified, and an answering spark kindled in hisown eyes."If that is thine offence, and not the alleged one of heresy, Iwill stand thy friend," he said; "and thou shalt not go forth fromChad to thy death so long as I have a roof to shelter thee. I willstand thy friend and protector so long as I have a house to callmine own."Chapter VI: Watched!"I am glad thou hast so resolved, my husband; but hast thouconsidered what it may mean to thee?"Lady Chadgrove spoke gently, laying her hand upon her husband's armwith a gesture unwontedly tender; for neither was demonstrative ofthe deep affection which existed between them, and he knew thatonly strong emotion evoked such action from her."I know that if I refuse to give up Brother Emmanuel I may drawdown upon myself stern admonition, and perchance something worse,but I mean not that it come to open defiance of any injunction fromthe Church. Brother Emmanuel must leave Chad secretly, and be faraway ere the week of grace expires. We are but twenty miles fromthe coast. This very day I shall ride thither and see what smalltrading vessels are in the bay about to fare forth to foreignshores. I shall negotiate with some skipper making for some Dutchport to carry thither the person whom I shall describe to him, andwho will show him this ring"--and Sir Oliver displayed an emeraldupon his own finger--"in token that he is the person to be takenaboard. Those trading skippers are used to such jobs, and if theybe paid they know how to hold their peace and ask no questions. InHolland the brother will be safer than in any other land. The spiteof the Prior of Chadwater is not like to pursue him there. But herehis life is not safe from hour to hour.""And how if it comes to be known that thou hast planned thisescape?" asked the lady, a little anxiously."I have thought of that too, dame," replied the knight, smiling."Let but the good brother be safely out of the country, and whilstthe hue and cry is still going on here after him I will to the kingand tell him all the story. Our pious Dean Colet, who knows BrotherEmmanuel, and knows, too, that it is meet the corrupt practicesthat have crept within the pale of Holy Church should be madeknown, that they may be swept away and reformed, will stand myfriend, and together we can so persuade his Majesty that even ifthe prior and Mortimer both combine to accuse me before him he willnot allow their spite to touch me. The king knows right well thatthere is need of amendment within the Church herself. We have heardwords spoken in the Cathedral of London which would be accountedrank heresy here. There is light abroad which must one day reach tothe ends of the earth, and truly it sometimes seemeth to me that ifthe priests, the abbots, and the monks set their faces steadfastlyagainst this light, they will fall into some terrible pitfall, butthey will never quench the light with their united strength."The lady gave one quick glance round, as though afraid that eventhe walls might have ears, and such sentiments were not those thatit was safe to blazon abroad. But Sir Oliver, strong in theconsciousness of his own deep and abiding love for the Church andfor all the doctrines which she upheld, was bold to speak his mindin private when the subject broached was the one of corruptions andabuses which some of the sturdiest and noblest sons of the Churchwere now engaged in examining and denouncing, none dreaming ofcharging them with heresy on that account.But the mother had noted the presence of Edred, who had come inquietly whilst the discussion was going on, and was now standinglistening to his father's words with kindling eyes; and she made asign to her husband which caused him to turn round, and then theboy spoke."The horses are ready at the door, father, and Bertram prays thathe may accompany thee. He is donning his riding dress already.""With all my heart," answered the knight readily, "an he can ridethe forty miles betwixt this and tomorrow at the same hour; for Ido not purpose to be long absent.""Bertram would ride all day and all night and feel it not,"answered Edred with a proud smile; "and he loves the sight and thesmell of the salt sea, and would be loath to miss the chance ofseeing it. Father, art thou going to aid Brother Emmanuel to fly?Is there peril for him abroad?"The knight bent a quick, keen glance upon his son."I fear so, my boy; and Brother Emmanuel himself thinks that ill ismeant him. And it is better to seek safety in flight at the firsthint of danger than to dally and delay, and perhaps find at lastthat it is too late to fly. Thou, my son, wilt for this one day andnight be left in charge of thy mother and thy home and all withinit; for I must needs take with me Warbel and a score of ourstoutest fellows, for the lonely road to the coast is none too safefor travellers of the better sort. Be thou watchful and vigilant,and keep thine eyes and thine ears alike open. Heed well that thegates be closed early, and that all be made safe, and let notBrother Emmanuel adventure himself without the walls. Use alldiscretion and heed, and fare thee well. I shall reach the coasttonight, and do my business with all speed, and be in the saddleagain with the light of dawn, so thou mayest look to see us againbefore noon."And with a tender farewell to his wife, the knight mounted and rodeaway with his gallant little train; and the lady looked after himfrom the window, and said to Edred, who quickly came to her tolearn more, if he could, of the words he had recently heard:"Now may the blessed saints and our Lord Himself be with him! forno braver and truer gentleman lives in the length and breadth ofthis land. There be few, indeed, who would imperil their own safetyrather than yield up one who is after all little more than astranger. Heaven send that he repent not this deed! May God be withhim in all his ways!""My mother," said Edred cautiously, "is it that Brother Emmanuel isin sore peril? He is so devout and faithful a son of the Churchthat it is hard to credit it.""In sooth, my son, these be matters hard to be understood; but thyfather truly holds that he were safer out of this country and outof reach of the Prior of Chadwater and the Lord of Mortimer. Men'swords can be turned and twisted till the best may be accused ofheresy; and again, if a monk has fallen beneath the wrath of hissuperior, no man may tell what would befall were he to return tothe power of his spiritual father. Sure those holy men who foundedthe orders of godly recluses little dreamed what those places mightbecome in time, and with the ever-increasing love of ease andwealth which seems implanted in the heart of man."Heaven pardon me if I speak or think amiss! but it is strange tohear and see what passes in the world. But one must use all cautioneven in thought, and I would not have thee speak aught of this savein a whisper in thy brother's ear, that he too may use all cautionand discretion till we can find occasion to send Brother Emmanuelforth in safety."We have a week before us ere he will be summoned hence. Strivethat none shall suspect aught of difference or coming change. Keepwell the hours of study. Give none occasion for remark. For all weknow, a spy may be in our midst; and at least any servant of oursmight well be questioned by any of the monks of Chadwater, to whomhe might go to confess, as to what was passing in the house, andsee no hurt in answering questions. Wherefore be very wise anddiscreet, and give none occasion for remark."Thou dost understand me, my son? I may trust thee? Remember thatthine own father's welfare may be imperilled by the veriest trifleshould men suspect him of striving to outwit the prior."Edred's eyes expressed a great comprehension and sympathy. He tookhis mother's hand and kissed it, slightly bending the knee."Thou mayest trust me, sweet mother," he answered. "Methinks I knowwell all thou wouldst say. I will be cautious, and I will teachcaution to Julian. No harm shall come to any beneath this roof fromword or deed of ours."And then the lady went to her delayed household duties, whilstEdred went in search of his brother, to take him to the room wheretheir studies were usually prosecuted, that the household wheelsmight revolve after the accustomed manner.But Julian was nowhere to be seen. Edred sought him and called himlustily, till at length the old seneschal at the gate heard him,and informed him that his brother had gone a short distance on footwith the travellers, but that he would doubtless be back ere long.Julian was light and fleet of foot as a deer, and often ran formany miles beside his father's charger, the nature of the woodedcountry round Chad giving him many advantages. Edred wandered fortha little way to meet him on his return, and was presently aware ofa cowled figure standing close against a great beech tree, and somotionless and rigid was the attitude that the boy had to looksomewhat closely to be certain that it was not a part of the treetrunk itself.He paused and examined the figure with an intense curiosity notunmixed with suspicion. His own light footfall did not appear tohave been heard, and the motionless figure, partly concealed behindthe tree, remained in the same rigid attitude, as though intentlywatching some approaching object.For a moment a superstitious thrill ran through the boy's frame. Hehad heard stories of ghostly visitants to these woods, some ofwhich wore the garb of the monks of the neighbouring priory; but hehad never seen any such apparition, and would not have thought ofit now had it not been for the peculiar and unnatural quietude ofthis figure. As it was, he paused, gazing intently at it, wonderingif indeed it were a being of flesh and blood.He was just summoning up courage to go forward and salute it, whenit moved forward in a gliding and cautious fashion. Edred feltashamed of his momentary thrill of fear, for he recognized at oncethe awkward gait and rolling step of Brother Fabian, and knew thathis preceptor's bitterest foe was lingering in the precincts of hishome.Resolved not to be seen himself, the boy sprang up a neighbouringtree as lightly as a squirrel, and from that vantage ground he sawthat his brother Julian was approaching, and that the monk hadstepped out to greet the lad. He heard the sound of the nasaltones, so different from the refined accents of Brother Emmanuel."Peace be with thee, my son."Julian stopped short, and slightly bent the knee. He looked up intoBrother Fabian's face with a look which Edred well knew, and whichimplied no love for his interlocutor. A stranger, however, would beprobably pleased at the frank directness of the gaze, not notingthe underlying hardihood and defiance."Alone, my son?" questioned the brother. "Methought I saw thee notlong since with thy father and brother and the servants. How comesit thou art now alone?""I saw thee not," answered Julian, without attempting to reply tothe question."Belike no. I was telling my beads out here in the forest. Thoudidst pass me by all unknowing; but I was nigh thy path the whilenevertheless. Whither--""That is something strange," remarked the boy, affecting not tohear the commencement of another question; "for I could be swornthat not a squirrel or field mouse crosses my path but that I markhim down. But I may not linger thus; the hour of our studies isalready here. I wish you good e'en; I must away home."The boy would have been gone with a bound the next instant had notthe monk laid a detaining hand upon his arm. Edred saw by thereluctance of his brother's mien that he resented being thusstayed."One moment, good my son," said Brother Fabian. "Tell me whitherthy father and brother have gone. It is something too late in theday for a hunting party; yet I knew not that the good knightpurposed any journey."Edred saw the sudden flash that came into Julian's eyes. He was inan agony lest the boy should betray his father's destination, whichto the astute mind of the monk might betray much more than hisbrother himself knew; but as he heard Julian's words he drew hisbreath more freely."Marry, hast thou not heard that my Lord of Beaumaris and Rochefortgoes a-hunting tomorrow with great muster? My father has gone tojoin the goodly company assembling there. Wilt thou not go thithertoo, Master Monk, and join the revelry that will make the hall ringtonight? I trow there is welcome for all who come. I would myfather had taken me.""Go to, saucy boy, go to!" replied the brother, half piqued, halfamused by the lad's boldness in thus implying that his place was ata riotous revel such as generally took place when some great baroninvited his friends for a day's sport in the forest.It was like enough that this hunting party had been arranged forthe morrow, and this road certainly led to Beaumaris and Rochefort.The reply seemed to satisfy the monk, and he relaxed his grasp ofthe boy's arm."I must not keep thee from thy studies longer," he said. "Say, whatdoes Brother Emmanuel teach you?""The Latin tongue and the use of the pen. Edred is a fine scribealready. And he hath taught us our letters in Greek likewise; formen are saying, he tells us, that it is shame that that languagehas been neglected so long, since the Holy Scriptures were writtenin it first.""And he doubtless teaches you from the Holy Scriptures--""Ay; and from the writings of the fathers, and the mass book,"added the boy. "We can all read Latin right well now. But I must begoing, an it please thee-""Yea, verily thou wilt make a fine scholar one of these days. I amglad thou hast so good an instructor. And that reminds me--I wouldhave speech with Brother Emmanuel some day soon. I have a missalthat I think he would greatly like sight of. I misdoubt me if theprior would like it carried forth from the library; but if he wouldmeet me one day here in the forest, I will strive to secrete it andlet him have sight of it. It hath wonderful pictures and letteringsuch as he loves. Wilt tell him of it, boy, and ask if he will havesight of it?""I will tell him," answered Julian. "But I trow he will have naughtto do with it an it has been filched away from the library withoutthe reverend prior's permission. Brother Emmanuel teaches us moreof the doctrine of obedience than of any other. I trow he will notbudge an inch!"A scowling look passed over the features of the monk, which hadhitherto been smiling and bland. He took Julian by the arm again,and said in a low voice:"I have something of import to speak to Brother Emmanuel. He willdo well to heed me, and to hear what I have to say. Bid him be atthis spot two days hence just as the sun goes down. Tell him if hecome not he may live to repent it bitterly.""Wilt thou not come back with me?" asked the boy, with a quick,distrustful look into the bloated face beneath the cowl. "Thoucanst speak at ease with him at home. It were better than out herein the forest. I will lead thee to him straight, and thou canst sayall that is in thine heart."But the monk dropped his arm and turned quickly away; his voicebespoke ill-concealed irritation."I may not linger longer here. The vesper bell will be ringing bynow. Give Brother Emmanuel my message. I would see him here in theforest. And now farewell, boy; go home as fast as thou wilt, andput a bridle on thy forward tongue, lest haply it lead thee one dayinto trouble."The monk strode away in the direction of the priory. Julian tookthe path towards Chad, with many backward glances at the retreatingfigure, and hardly was it lost in the thick underwood of the forestthan he found his brother standing at his side."Thou here, Edred? Whence camest thou?"Edred pointed to his leafy hiding place, and laid a finger on hislips in token of caution. Julian pursued his way awhile in silence,and only when they had increased the distance betwixt themselvesand the monk by many hundred yards, the elder brother said, in lowtones and very cautiously:"Have a care, Julian; methinks he is not going home. He is here asa spy, I do not doubt. I saw him watching and spying like averitable messenger sent for such a purpose."O Julian, I was right glad at the answer thou gavest him about ourfather. I trembled lest thou shouldst say he was bound for thecoast."Both brothers had been too well trained in the creed which allowsand encourages the practice of speaking falsehood and even doingevil in a good cause, to feel that any kind of shame attached to afalsehood spoken to conceal from a crafty enemy a thing it would beperilous to others for him to know. And indeed diplomatic falsehoodhas never been eradicated from the world even since purer light hasshone in upon it. It is very hard to meet craft, falsehood, andtreachery by absolute frankness and truthful honesty. In the longrun it does sometimes prove to be the strongest weapon a man canwield; but the temptation to meet craft by craft, deceit by deceit,is strong in human nature, and until a much later date was openlyadvocated as the only policy sane men could adopt when they dealtwith foes always eager to outwit them. And certainly these ladswould have felt themselves justified in going to far greaterlengths to save their father from suspicion, or their preceptor andfriend from peril."Then thou heardest all? I scarce know why I spoke as I did, forour father has always been the friend of the brethren of Chadwater.But the look in the man's eye made me cautious, and I minded a fewparting words spoken by Bertram. Tell me, Edred, what it is that isstirring; I would know more.""Verily it is that Brother Emmanuel stands in some peril from thoseof his own community. He has written something they mislike, andthey mean to have him back to answer for it. Both he and our fatherthink that if once he enters Chadwater again he will never comeforth alive. Wherefore our father will not give him up to hisenemies, but will contrive for him to escape. That is what he hasgone to the coast for today; and when he knows that a vessel isready and about to sail, Brother Emmanuel must be spirited away inthe dead of the night; and when the prior comes to search forhim--as doubtless he will do when we can find him not--it willpuzzle him to lay hands upon him, for he will be away on the highseas.""Good!" cried Julian, delighted. "Edred, I mislike those cruel,crafty monks. Methinks they are little like the saintly men of oldwho fled to the cloister to rid themselves of the trammels of theworld. I--"But Edred laid a hand upon his brother's arm and checked himsuddenly, pointing to another stationary figure a short distanceaway amongst the trees--a figure wearing the dress of a lay brotherof the priory, and engaged in keeping a close and careful watchupon the main entrance to the house."Hist!" whispered Edred; "we must not let him hear such words.Julian, mark my word, this house is watched. The prior has set hisspies upon it. He fears lest Brother Emmanuel shall escape; or elsethe watch is set so that any going forth of his may be known, andhe will be set upon and swiftly bound, and carried away to thepriory, whence, I fear me, no man will ever see him re-issue."Both the boys had stopped short, and now they looked into eachother's faces with dismay.Their light footfalls had not been heard, nor even the sound oftheir voices; for a strong breeze had sprung up, and was rustlingthe leaves overhead, and several birds were singing lustily. Thebrothers had time to take in the situation without being seenthemselves, and they then drew hack into a leafy covert and spokein whispers."Edred, do thou go back to the house instantly and openly, and warnBrother Emmanuel that he go not forth. Belike he might come out insearch of us, since the hour is long past when we should have beenwith him. That must not be. Go and tell him all we have seen;whilst I will creep like a wildcat round the house, and see ifthere be other spies keeping watch like those we have seen.""Ay, do so," replied Edred earnestly. "I fear me we shall find thatevery door is watched. But if thou art seen, go forward boldly. Letnone guess that you suspect aught. Doubtless each watcher is wellprimed with some excellent reason for being found there. Speak themfriendly, and do not show distrust.""I will be as wise as a serpent," answered the boy, with one of hiskeen looks which bespoke him older in mind than in years.Edred felt that his junior was better fitted to cope with a spythan he himself; and gladly taking the other office upon himself,he walked gaily forward, whistling a roundelay as he moved, andaffecting not to see the dark figure by the oak, which pressedcloser and closer out of sight as the lad strode by."Verily he means to remain unseen," thought Edred to himself. "Ifhe had not been a spy he would have greeted me as I passed. He isafter no good. Thank Heaven we have seen and heard what we have! Wecan so manage now that Brother Emmanuel set not foot beyond thecourtyard for long enough to come--not till he may sally forth tomake his way to the coast."And then a sudden fear smote the boy that per chance this nightjourney to the coast might not be so easy to accomplish as had beenhoped. If the cunning prior had set a watch upon Chad with the veryobject of preventing the escape of his intended victim, might itnot well be that his father's forethought would be of no avail?But it would not do to lose heart--time might show a way of escape;and Edred hurried within, and found Brother Emmanuel awaiting histardy pupils, the great Bible open before him, the sunset lightilluminating his face till, to the boy's ardent imagination, itseemed to be encircled by a nimbus.His story was soon excitedly told, and as Brother Emmanuel heard ofSir Oliver's sudden journey, a look almost as of pain crossed hisface."I have told thy father that I cannot and will not suffer harm tobefall him and his through his kindness to me. Boy, boy, these beevil days in which to offend the powers that be; and it werebetter, far better, I should give myself up to death than that hurtshould fall upon those I love and those who have befriended me withsuch generosity and love."But Edred passionately disclaimed and explained."Brother, holy father, speak not so! thou wilt break our hearts! Welove thee! thou knowest that we love thee! And we think, we areassured, that we can yet save thee, and ourselves too. Do not breakour hearts by giving thyself up ere we have tried our utmost. Itmay be--nay, I am assured of it--that our blessed Saviour has agreat work for thee to do for Him somewhere. Has He not Himselfcharged His servants if they be persecuted in one city to flee toanother? He has not bid them give themselves up to their foes, tobe hindered from doing the work He has put it into their hearts todo."Pardon my forwardness if I seem to teach my preceptor. I do butrepeat words thou hast taught me. Stay with us--stay at Chad. Therebe ways and means both for hiding and for flight of which few knowor dream. Let us have this alms to do for our Lord, that we hideand save one of His servants. Thou canst little know what grief andsorrow thou wouldst cause to us, or thou couldst not talk of givingthyself up."The boy's earnestness was so deep that it could not but produce animpression. Although full of heroic courage and capabilities ofself sacrifice, it was against human nature that Brother Emmanuelshould desire to cast away his life, and that not by raising aprotest for any point of conscience, but simply to be quietly putout of the way, that he might no longer expose the luxury and viceprevailing in the monastic retreat of which he was a member.He had seen a row of underground niches, some of which had beenwalled up; and tradition asserted that living monks had been thusburied alive for being untrue to their vows. He quite believed theprior capable of accusing him of the same sin and ordering him to alike fate. In the eyes of the haughty ecclesiastic such a betrayalof cloister secrets would be looked upon as treachery to his vows,whilst in reality it was his very love for his vows, and his horrorat their violation, which had inspired the pen that had pouredforth burning words of denunciation and scorn. To die openly forthe cause would have been one thing--a martyr has ofttimes spokenmore eloquently by his death than by his life--but to be thusburied in a living grave would benefit none; and who would notshrink from such a fate?The pause which succeeded Edred's impassioned appeal was broken bythe entrance of Julian, flushed and heated."It is as we thought. The house is watched. There be six or sevenspies posted around it--most of them lay brothers, but some monksthemselves. Every entrance is watched closely. None can go in orout unmarked by one or another. Doubtless they have some signalwhich may at any time bring all of them together to one spot."Brother Emmanuel, thou must not adventure thyself beyond thecourtyard till this watch ceases. Were they spies of my Lord ofMortimer's, we might go forth and drive them hence. But none maylay a finger on a monk. They are all ready with a story that theyare on the watch for some heretic in hiding in the woods. I spoketo one to see what he would say, and he began about the hunchbackof the fair, whom they have not caught yet, and professed to bewatching for him. Doubtless they would all say the same did anyquestion them; but they strive to keep out of sight as far as maybe, and some have found hollow trees where they might pass days andnights and none be the wiser."There could be no study for the boys that day; they were too deeplymoved and excited. Moreover, Edred had his father's charge to keep,and as sundown was nigh at hand, the two brothers visited everygate and portal and saw the house made fast within and without.An air of excitement and mystery seemed to permeate the place. Theservants had caught some of the infection, and whispers of loyaltyand affection were murmured many times in the boys' ears as theypursued their round. At last, all being safely ordered, they wentby common consent to their own room, and stood looking at thesecret door which led to the hiding place none knew of butthemselves and Warbel."I trow we shall need it now," said Edred. "But all is in readinessfor the fugitive; all has been done save to bring in the victuals.Brother, shall we do that this very night? I would there were asupply there for a month, and a couple of gallon jars of good meadand some bottles of wine. We must put water there, too, but nottill the last minute. They say men must have water, else they die;but sure they could live for long on good mead and ale. HathBertram any plan for getting water to the chamber save what we cancarry ourselves? He said he would not rest till we had donesomewhat; but--"A light sparkled in Julian's eyes."Come, and thou shalt see, thou brother of books," he said. "Whilstthou hast been doing thy penance for what sin we know not, and beenreading amain with Brother Emmanuel, we have not been idle. Come,and I will show thee what we have contrived. I trow none needperish of thirst in the secret chamber now who knows aught of ourcontrivance."With eager steps Julian led the way, and Edred no less eagerlyfollowed. It was very dark in the secret chamber; but the means ofkindling a light were now there, and soon a small dim lantern waslighted."Come hither," said Julian, taking the light and leading the wayinto a corner that lay beneath the leads of the house; and whenthere Edred saw a metal trough or receiver, rudely made buteffectual for the purpose of holding any liquid, something similarto what the animals in the yard were fed and watered from. Abovethis trough was a piece of iron pipe with a bung at the end."That trough and pipe Bertram and I fashioned in the blacksmith'sforge with our own hands," said the boy proudly, "and I trow bothare good enow and strong. Dost know what does the other end of thepipe? Why, we have inserted it into the great rainwater tank yonderabove our heads, which our grandsire contrived, and which is fedfrom the roofs and battlements of all the towers. Thou hast heardour father tell how he read of such things in days of old, when menbuilt wondrous palaces, and had hanging gardens, and I know notwhat beside. He set the tank up there, and, as thou knowest, it isnot now greatly used, albeit there is always water there, and attimes men draw it forth. It may not be the best or purest, but itwill serve for washing, and for drinking too were a man in a greatstrait. It is all pure and sweet now; for in the thunderstorm threenights since Bertram got up and let off all the stagnant water bythe pipe which can be opened below, and the rain soon filled itagain, it poured down with such goodwill. We need not fear that anycaptive will die of thirst. He has but to draw this bung and waterwill pour forth into this trough till he stops it again. He canpour away the surplus down the pipe with the dust and such like."I trow whoever lives up here awhile will have no such bad housing.And if we but get the place victualled this night, it will be readyfor Brother Emmanuel whensoever he may need it."Chapter VII: An Imposing Spectacle."To appear at the priory with all our household! Surely, myhusband, that command is something strange?"Lady Chadgrove raised her eyes anxiously to her lord's face, to seethereon an answering look of perplexity not untinged by anxiety. Hewas perusing a paper held in his hands."Such is the missive," he remarked. "It was brought by a laybrother but now. Methinks the fellow is yet in the kitchen. Ourmead is not to be lightly disdained. I will send young Julian totalk with him, and learn if may be the cause of this strangesummons. I would not willingly give cause of offence to the lordprior; and the money has been paid that was promised, so methinkshe means no hurt to me or mine. But it is not safe to adventureoneself into the lion's mouth. I would gladly know what is behindall this. I am something ill at ease.""All the household would mean Brother Emmanuel likewise," said thelady. "Perchance it is but a means of drawing him within thetoils.""It is like enough. It will be the day on which the week of graceexpires. Would to God I could see my way more clearly! I am in agreat strait betwixt mine own conscience and the authority of theChurch. How can I deliver up a faithful and devoted son of theChurch to certain death, when my house is his only refuge andprotection? Yet how may I refuse obedience to my spiritual fathersand superiors, to whom I owe submission in all things, in right oftheir office, albeit as men I know them to be--faulty?".He paused, as if reluctant to put his thoughts into words even tohis wife. He was going through that mental and spiritual strugglewhich was speedily to do so great a work in the world--thatstruggle which led to the final fall of the religious houses inthis land. Viewed as a God-appointed ordinance, or at least as abulwark and rampart of the Church, it seemed a fearful thing tohold them in aught but awe and reverence, and to look upon theirsons as saints and godly men, in whom the Spirit of the Lord wasworking. But when the corrupt practices within those walls wereknown, when men were convinced, sorely against their will, that theinmates were licentious, depraved, covetous, and tyrannical, thenindeed it became hard to recognize their God-appointed mission.Sir Oliver was no heretic; he had not even the faint sympathy withand comprehension of the tenets of the heretics which were creepinginto some enlightened minds. He had imbibed some new andenlightened views from stanch sons of the Church, who werethemselves preaching the doctrine of internal reform, but he wentno further in these matters than his teachers. The very name ofheresy was odious to him, but none the less did it go sorelyagainst the grain to be a slave to the haughty Prior of Chadwater,and at his bidding to violate (as it seemed to him) the sacred lawsof hospitality.Whilst Julian was gone upon his errand, he paced the floorrestlessly and moodily."I would we had got him off before this coil began. But who couldhave thought it would come--and Brother Emmanuel so true andfaithful a son of the Church? Knowest thou, wife, that he keepsvigil three nights in the week in the chantry, watchingsleeplessly, lest the Lord coming suddenly should find the wholehouse sleeping? Edred keeps watch one night, and good old Margaretanother. I did but lately know this thing. Brother Emmanuel holdsthat the Church should ever be watching and waiting for her Lord,lest He come as a thief in the night. He would have prayersceaselessly ascending before Him. It is his grief and pain thatwithin the cloister walls, whence he has come, no true vigil iskept, but that sloth and ease have taken the place of watching andvigil and prayer. And such a man as that they would have me deliverto his death!""Art sure they mean him ill, my husband? It seems scarce possible.""I am very sure that it is so," answered the knight, with a sternglance bent upon the sunny landscape beyond the open window. "It isstrange, but it is true; and I sometimes think that some fearfuland unlooked-for judgment must some day fall upon men who--"But Sir Oliver paused, for his wife had made a gesture, as if tocheck the impetuous words that sprang to his lips. He smiled alittle darkly."Thou art right, good dame. Such words are better left unspoke. Ifit be dangerous to think some things, it be more dangerous to speakone's thoughts. Let it be enough for us that the Lord reigneth, bethe earth never so unquiet. He sitteth a judge and a king. In Hishands are the final issues of all things."The lady bent her head with due reverence, and then asked eagerly:"And when does the fishing smack sail?"Sir Oliver shook his head impatiently."Not for full fourteen days: it had but just come into port, andthere be much merchandise to unlade and lade again. The skipper wasan honest fellow, and a true-hearted man to boot. He would not takemy gold, but said his passenger should bring it with him when hecame; for he knew there was a chance he might not contrive to come,and he would not receive aught for services he might never havepower to render. But he knows his business, and once safe on boardthe sloop our fugitive will be safe enow. But not till it be almostready for sea--not till the skipper could weigh anchor at amoment's notice. He himself said he must not come aboard till thelast moment. Were any hue and cry to be made after him, any vesselin port would be certain to be searched. How to keep him safe forthese fourteen--nay, it is but twelve days now--is the thing thatis perplexing me. Until the close of the appointed week naught willbe done; but there will be one long week after that which will taxour resources to the utmost. And this summons from the prior makesthe whole question the more difficult.""And the boys say that the house is being watched. Hast not heardas much? There be spies from the priory posted round and about. Allthe gates are watched. Edred thinks it is to strive to seizeBrother Emmanuel should he venture forth from the shelter of thewalls."I like not the thought of all those prying eyes. My husband, thesebe strange times in which we dwell."Sir Oliver's face was dark and thoughtful."Ay, verily they be. How can men wonder that the ignorant andunlearned turn with loathing and scorn from such crooked andcowardly ways?--"How now, Julian? Hast learned the cause of this ado? What says thelay brother? Hast thou sounded him with care and with all duecaution?"Julian and Edred came in together. Julian looked flushed andexcited, Edred pale and thoughtful, and his eyes were glowing witha strange fire."Ay, verily, we have found it all out," cried the younger boy, witheager excitement of manner. "Methinks it will be a fine sight.Father, hast heard of the thing which men call the 'GreatAbjuration'--was not that the name, Edred?"The elder boy made a sign of assent."It is for the heretics and Lollards," pursued Julian eagerly. "Ithath been done before in many places, and here it is to be done twodays from hence. All those persons who are suspected of heresy, orhave been found guilty, are to be called before the lord prior andthe Lord of Mortimer, and they will be bidden to abjure all theirfalse doctrines publicly. The whole village will be assembled tohear them recant; high and low, rich and poor, all are to meettogether in the great quadrangle of the priory to hear and see. Thelay brother says it will be a fine sight. If they will not recant,the prior will give them over to the Lord of Mortimer, who will seethat they suffer as heretics are wont to do. If they abjure theirerrors, the prior will set them their penances; and these be nolight thing, by what the brother says. Some will be branded in thecheek, that they carry the mark of their shame all their days; somewill have a green badge affixed to their arm, to wear until theyhave leave to cast it off, that all men may know they have beentouched by the pollution; whilst others will be set to menial toilin the monasteries, and will perchance spend the rest of theirlives there, sundered from their friends and their homes and allthose whom they love."In truth, I marvel how any man can meddle with heresy in thesedays. The bishops have resolved to stamp it out once and for all,and methinks they will do so right well if they take such steps asthese."Sir Oliver's face looked a little relieved as he heard his son'swords."Then everybody within the district is to be summoned to meet atthe priory upon this same day?""Ay, verily; all are to be there, from the highest to the lowest.The lay brothers are going round the country, bidding all to thespectacle. It is thought that after all have seen what will takeplace upon that day, there will be no longer any fear of heresyround Chad and Mortimer."The boy ran off to try to learn more details. Edred stood lookingat his father with troubled eyes."Father," he said, in a low voice, "must Brother Emmanuel go withus that day?"Sir Oliver looked down at the paper in his hands."It bids me to attend with my family and all my household, savesuch as must be left to take due care of the house in my absence,"said he. Then he paused awhile in silent thought, and looking up hesaid suddenly, "Go fetch Brother Emmanuel hither."Edred vanished silently and swiftly, and soon afterwards returnedwith the monk at his side.The past few days had left their mark on the thin, spiritual faceof the young ecclesiastic. The knowledge of the peril in which hestood had not daunted his courage, though it had drawn lines in hisface and deepened the fire which burned within those dark, resoluteeyes. His face looked as though he had slept but little, as thoughhis nights had been passed in watching and prayer, as was indeedthe case. He had an air of calm, resolute courage and hopefulness,though it was plain that he knew the danger of his position, andwas fully alive to the peril which menaced him.Sir Oliver placed the paper in his hand, and watched him silentlywhilst he perused it. When he had finished he handed it back, andstood for a moment looking out of the window with an expression ofthoughtful concentration on his face. At the end of a few momentshe looked up quickly, and said:"You and yours will attend, Sir Oliver?""Yes; we must needs do that. But you?"Brother Emmanuel lifted his head and threw it back with a gestureof resolution and independence."Sir Oliver," he said, "upon the day when your household is biddento the priory, I cease, by the command of my superior, to be amember of this household. Upon that day your command over me (if Imay use the word)--your responsibility over me--ceases. Whatever Imay do or not do is no concern of yours. I am no longer theinstructor of your sons, nor the priest within your walls. What Ido I do of mine own self. None can rightly call you to task for it.Let that be your safeguard; let that be your answer to allquestions. The prior has ordained that from that day I cease toremain here. From the dawning of that day you have no part nor lotin my life. I take its control into mine own hands, and it werebetter you should not even know whither I go nor what I do."Sir Oliver bent a searching look upon him."So be it," he answered, after a moment's thought. "But this oneword I say to thee: Thou hast been true and faithful to me andmine; wherefore my roof and my walls shall be thy shelter untilthou goest forth of thine own freewill. Be not afraid to remainhere with me. I will defend thee with every power I have until suchtime as thou mayest safely escape beyond the seas."He held out his hand. The monk took it and pressed it between bothof his."The Lord deal with thee and thine as thou hast dealt with me," wasthe reply, spoken in deep, earnest accents.The knight bent his head in response to the benediction; andBrother Emmanuel moved silently away, closely followed by Edred,who looked pale and troubled."Thou dost not think he will present himself at the priory with therest of the world?" asked Lady Chadgrove, with anxiety in face andvoice; and her husband thoughtfully shook his head as he madereply:"I trow not. I have spoken to him of that before, and he was verywell resolved to fly the country and strive to finish the work hehas begun, to join the band who are toiling might and main to bringa purer and holier spirit within the pale of the Church and herservants. It is a work to which he has long felt called, and hebelieves that it will be faithfully carried out somewhere, if nothere. For a while he will be safer beyond the seas; but he mayreturn and join with those in Oxford and London who are toiling inthe same cause. He knows of the sloop--where it lies and when itsails; and I trow he is laying plans of his own. It were better notto ask of these. I would rather walk in ignorance. A man cannotbetray, however inadvertently, what he knows not, and the subtleskill in questioning possessed by our reverend prior might win thesecret from any unskilled person ere he knew he had revealed it. Iknow not what he means to do, nor shall I seek to know. But he hascourage, spirit, and a consciousness of integrity which may carryhim through much. Methinks he has judged wisely and well both forus and himself."When this day comes," touching the paper in his hand, "it is verytrue that I am no longer accountable for him as a member of myhouse hold. He has received his recall from his superior. It is forhim to answer to it or not as he thinks best."A sense of excitement and uneasiness pervaded the whole of thehouse during the two following days. In all men's mouths was talkof this solemn abjuration which was about to be forced upon allthose suspected of heresy; and many persons who had tamperedslightly and privately with doubtful matters went about lookinguneasy and troubled, fearful lest they might find themselvesaccused of illicit practices, and be summoned forth to do penancein a more or less severe form before they could hope to receiveabsolution.Sir Oliver Chadgrove's household was strictly orthodox in alloutward matters; but the leaven of Lollardism was wonderfullypenetrating, and he himself had suspected and feared that some ofhis servants might be tainted therewith. He awaited the day withalmost as much anxiety as any of his dependants, for he well knewthat the Lord of Mortimer would lose no opportunity of dealing hima heavy blow; and if he could be proved guilty of harbouringheretics or even suspected persons in his house, it would give hisenemy a handle against him that he would not be slow to use.As for the boys, it was plain that something of unwonted excitementwas agitating their minds; but in the general anxiety pervading thewhole household little account was taken of this.The day came at last, dawning fair and clear. Sir Oliver assembledhis household early in the courtyard, and every retainer was cladin his best and mounted upon his best charger. It was well to makea goodly display of strength and wealth on an occasion like thepresent. Doubtless the Lord of Mortimer would be there with all histrain, and Chad must not cut a much poorer figure in the eyes ofthe beholders.None knew better than Sir Oliver how far a goodly seeming went incondoning offences and allaying suspicion, especially in the eyesof such a worldly-wise man as the Prior of Chadwater. A proudbearing, a goodly following, a gorgeous retinue, would be a farbetter proof of orthodoxy in his eyes than any saintliness of lifeand conduct. Mortimer would know that right well, though, as he hadbeen elected as the secular agent to assist the prior in his worktoday, plainly no stigma of any kind was thought to rest upon hishousehold. Sir Oliver knew that Mortimer was a larger property thanChad, and that the baron was a greater man than the knight. It wasreasonable enough that he had been selected for this office, andsuch choice need imply no distrust of himself on the prior's part;but still there was an uneasy, underlying consciousness that he wassuspected and watched, and the espionage which had been kept up allthis while on his house was a plain proof that he was not entirelytrusted.The priory and its adjacent buildings formed a very fine specimenof medieval architecture. The abbey was in itself a masterpiece ofbeauty, and the great block formed by refectories and dormitoriesstood at right angles to it. The prior's house, with its ampleaccommodation and its guest chambers, formed an other side to thegreat quadrangle; whilst the granaries, storehouses, and such-likebuildings formed the fourth--the whole enclosing a very largespace, which formed the exercising ground of the monks when theywere kept by their rules within the precincts of their home.The smoothest of green grass, carefully kept and tended, formed thecarpet of this enclosure; and today the whole quadrangle formed ananimated and picturesque spectacle on account of the shifting,many-coloured groups of people gathered together there with looksof expectation and wonder.A holiday appearance was presented by the crowd; for however ill atease any person might feel, it was his aim and object to look asjovial and well assured as possible. Every knee was bent wheneverany monk appeared. The professions of reverence and orthodoxy werealmost comic in their display.The whole of the rural population had gathered in this open spacewhen the master of Chad and his retainers rode in, followed by thehumbler servants and many women and children on foot. But the Lordof Mortimer had not yet put in an appearance, though some of hisretainers and men-at-arms might be seen mingling with the crowd;and Sir Oliver and his wife and sons looked curiously about them asthey reined back their horses against the wall, wondering whetherthey should dismount altogether, and what the order of the day'sproceedings was to be.There were two great raised platforms at one end of the openenclosure, and upon these platforms, both of which were draped withcloth, many seats had been arranged. One of these was canopied, andwas plainly for the prior; but beyond this Sir Oliver could be sureof nothing.When, however, it became known that the party from Chad hadarrived, a lay brother came out and bid them dismount and send awaytheir steeds to the meadow beyond, where one or two of the servantscould see to them; and as soon as this had been done, Sir Oliverwas told that he and his lady would occupy certain seats upon oneof the platforms, but that there would not be room for more thanhis eldest son to have a place there beside him. The younger boysmust remain in the crowd.Edred and Julian were well pleased at this, and gave each other aquick pressure of the hand. Edred was intensely excited; andgradually edged his way to a good position not far from theplatform, that he might hear and see everything; and Julian stoodbeside him, as intent upon the proceedings as anyone.With a great show of ecclesiastical pomp, forth came the prior withhis monks in attendance, and closely following them the haughtyLord of Mortimer; with his son-in-law, Sir Edward Chadwell, by hisside, and his daughter following her husband. With these came manyknights and persons of standing in the county; and whilst the priorand the monks grouped themselves upon one platform, the barons,knights, and nobles took their appointed places on the other, theowners of Mortimer and Chad being for once in their lives elbow toelbow, and constrained to exchange words and looks of greeting.A deep hush fell upon the crowd, and the people surged back againstthe walls, leaving the centre space vacant. At the same timecertain men wearing the garb and the air of jailers or executionerscame forth and stood in the midst of the open space--one of thembearing the glowing brazier and the branding iron, which he placedon a slab of stone in the very centre of the enclosure.When all preparations were complete, the prior arose, and in a loudand solemn voice commanded that the prisoners should be broughtforth--those persons who had not been merely suspected of heresy,but had been found with heretical books in their possession, orwere known to be in the habit of meeting together to read suchbooks and hear the pestilent doctrines which vile and wickedpersons were propagating in the land.At that command a number of monks appeared, leading bound, and inscant and miserable clothing, about a score of men and women,foremost amongst whom was the hunchback, whose face and voice werealike well known to Edred. Most of the prisoners were trembling andcowering; but he held his head erect, and looked calmly round uponthe assembled potentates. There was no fear or shrinking in hispinched face. He eyed the prior with a look as unbending as hisown.Then began a long harangue from the great man, in which the wilesof the devil in the pestilent doctrines of the heretics, so-calledLollards, were forcibly and not illogically pointed out. When noman might give answer, when none might show where misrepresentationcame in, where there was nothing given but the one side of thequestion, it was not difficult to make an excellent case againstthe accused. The early heretics, mostly unlettered people, alwaysmarred the purity of the cause by falling into exaggeration andfoolishness, by denouncing what was good as well as what wascorrupt in a system against which they were revolting--thus layingthemselves open to attack and confutation, and alienating from themmany who would have striven to stand their friend and to havegently set them right had they been less headstrong and less proneto tear away and condemn every practice the meaning of which theywere, through ignorance and want of comprehension, unable to enterinto.In the hands of the skilful prior their doctrines were indeed madeto look vile and blasphemous and foolish in the extreme. Manypersons shuddered at hearing what words had been used by them withregard to the holy sacraments; and most of the persons brought totheir trial were weeping and terrified at their own conduct beforethe prior's speech was half through. Only the hunchback retainedhis bold front, and looked back with scorn into the face of theprelate as he made point after point in his scathing denunciation.When the harangue ended, the prior made a sign to his servants, andimmediately one of the most timorous and craven of the prisonerswas brought up before him. He was far too cunning a judge to tryfirst to bend the spirit of the hunchback. He knew that with thatman he could do nothing, and he knew too what marvels weresometimes accomplished by the example of self devotion. Socommencing with a weak and trembling woman, who was ready to sinkinto the ground with fear and shame merely at being thus had upbefore the eyes of the whole place, he easily obtained a solemnrecantation and abjuration of every form of heresy; and in a toneof wonderful mildness, though of solemn warning, too, told her thatsince she was a woman and young, and had doubtless been led away byothers, she should be pardoned after she had paid a visit barefootto a shrine forty miles off--a shrine much derided by the hereticteachers--and had returned in like fashion, having tasted nothingbut bread and water the whole time of the journey.Then came, one after another, the weakest and most timorous of thecraven crowd. The infection of fear had seized upon them. Ignorant,superstitious, scarcely understanding the new teachings that hadattracted them, and fearfully terrified of falling under the ban ofthe Church under whose shelter they had always lived, was itwonderful that one after another should abjure their hereticalopinions, and swear to listen to the enticer no more? Some stroveto ask questions upon the points which troubled them; but scarceany sort of disputing was allowed. The prior was subtle in fence,and by a few scathing words could generally quell the questionerand make him wish his objection unspoken.And those who showed a tendency towards disputation were far moreharshly dealt with than those who abjured at once. The red-hotiron, the badge of shame, the servitude which might be lifelongwere imposed upon them. So a sense of despair fell upon the littleband, and they yielded one by one; only three refusing to take thewords of the oath--the hunchback and two more, one being a lad ofabout sixteen summers; and after using every threat and argument toovercome their obstinacy, the prior called upon the Lord ofMortimer as the representative of the secular arm, and deliveredthe prisoners over to him to be dealt with after the manner of thelaw.A shuddering groan went up, as if involuntarily, from many throatsas the prisoners were led away by the guards of Mortimer. The priorlooked sternly round to check the demonstration, reminding thepeople that the burning of the body was as nothing, it was theeternal burning of the soul in hell that men should fear; and thatif in the midst of the flames the guilty persons recanted theirsins, it was just possible that even then the merciful God wouldhear and receive their prayer, and that they might be saved fromthe eternal death of the soul.Then somewhat changing his tone, though still speaking with gravityand even with sadness, he told the people of the pain with which hehad heard stories of the sympathy evinced by some even amongstthose standing about him for the wicked and pestilent disturbers ofthe public peace and the safety of the Church. One or two personshe called upon by name, and rebuked with some severity for wordsreported to have been dropped by them which savoured, if not ofheresy itself, yet of carelessness and irreverence for sacredthings which bordered dangerously on heresy. One after anotherthese persons came forward trembling, asked pardon, and weredismissed not unkindly, but with many an admonition for the future.It was made plain and patent to all that the bishops had absolutelyresolved to stamp out heresy once and for all; and for once theprior and abbots, the monks and the friars, were in accord andworking hand in hand. It was useless for any to hope to stem such atide as that--such was the tenor of the prior's speech--heresy wasto be exterminated. On that point there was no manner of doubt; andif, knowing this, persons chose deliberately to put themselvesunder the ban of the law, well, their blood must be upon their ownhead. Neither God nor man would have mercy upon them.Several of the retainers and a few of the actual household of Chadhad received admonitions of this sort. Sir Oliver looked onuneasily, catching a subdued look of triumph in the eyes of hisrival and foe. He did not believe his household seriously taintedwith heresy. He knew that certain of them who had been with him inLondon had imbibed the teaching of Dean Colet and his pupils, andhe did not know, any more than the dean himself, that the Lollardssecretly encouraged each other to go and hear a man who spoke somuch of the truth they themselves held.The line where orthodoxy ends and heresy begins has been at alltimes hard to define, and perhaps the upholders of the "Church"knew as little as anybody how hard this definition was becoming.Several persons had stood forth (invited by the prior to do so) andconfessed to dangerous sentiments which they now saw to be utterlywrong, and vowed to abjure forever; or had accused other persons ofwords which required explanation, or of deeds which suggested aleaning towards secret meetings where heresy might be discussed.But the day's proceedings seemed drawing to a close, and nothing ofany great peril to the Lord of Chad had occurred, when just at theclose of the afternoon Brother Fabian suddenly came forward andwhispered a few words in the prior's ear; and he, after a moment ofapparent hesitation, spoke aloud."It is with great grief that I learn that one of our own brethrenhas been heard to utter words which sound strangely like those ofheresy; but since it is our bounden duty that strict justice bedone to all, whether high or low, rich or poor, nay, whether it beour own son or brother, I here call upon Brother Emmanuel to standforth publicly, as others have done, and answer the charge broughtagainst him."The prior looked round as he spoke these words in a loud voice; butthere was no movement either in the crowd or amongst the cowledmonks, and he spoke the name again without eliciting any response.The Lord of Mortimer leaned forward and spoke to his neighbour."Methinks this brother was a member of your household, Sir Oliver,"he said, with a gleam of malice in his eye. "Surely you received amandate bidding you come with all your household. Where is thispreceptor of your sons?""His duties ceased last night," replied Sir Oliver calmly, in atone loud enough to reach the prior's ears. "He had command toreturn today to the priory, and last evening he said farewell to meand mine. I have not seen him today.""Did he know of the summons to all to attend the gathering heretoday?"Sir Oliver bent his head."He did. I showed him the paper myself.""Then wherefore is he not here?""That know I not. I did not know he was not here. I do not know iteven now. I have never known Brother Emmanuel fail in obedienceyet."The name was being whispered all round. The monks were professingto be searching for the missing brother. The prior looked at SirOliver with some sternness."Where is this monk?" he asked,"I do not know," was the firm response. "I have not seen him sincehis farewell yesternight.""You thought he was coming hither?""I knew naught. He told me naught of his purposes."The prior's eyes flashed ominously."Have a care, Sir Oliver, have a care. Brother Emmanuel is yetwithin the walls of Chad. I have reason to know he has not leftthem the whole of this past week. He has been disobedient to hisvow of submission. He has not come at my bidding.""I know naught of it," replied the knight calmly.The Lord of Mortimer leaned forward once more with an evil smile inhis eyes."Let not mistaken generosity get the better of prudence, mybrother," he said, with derisiveness in his tone. "You know wellthat the penalty of hiding and harbouring a heretic is little shortof that of heresy itself. Have a care you do not lose all just forthe caprice of the moment, which in time to come you will haveleisure bitterly to repent."The prior, too, was eying him sternly."Lord Mortimer gives good counsel, Sir Oliver," he said. "Thouknowest I am no enemy of thine. What has this day passed must haveshown thee that. Thou knowest that there be some here who mighthave been called before me today to answer for their deeds who havebeen spared for their youth and gentle birth. Thou hast had proofthat I am no enemy of thine. But the walls of Chad must not harboura heretic. Brother Emmanuel is there; he hath been there, and hathnot sallied forth this many days, showing that a guilty consciencekeeps him within. He cannot go forth without my knowledge; and ifthou wilt not give him up to me, I must obtain authority and havethe house searched and the man dragged forth. And I tell theefreely, if it be found that thou hast lent thine aid in harbouringa heretic and disobedient monk, thy lands will be forfeit, if notthy life, and the Lord of Mortimer will be likewise Lord of Chad."At that moment, had any person had eyes to heed it, it might havebeen observed that Edred and Julian slipped like veritable shadowsthrough the packed crowd. The next moment they had reached thegateway, had passed under it without exciting any observation, andas soon as they reached the cover of the forest, they set off torun towards Chad as fast as their legs could carry them--far fasterthan their horses could have borne them through the narrow paths ofthe tangled wood.Chapter VIII: Hidden Away.Fleetly, silently, untiringly ran the two brothers, withoutexchanging a single word of their purpose even to each other. Thedistance from the priory to the house was a matter of some twomiles, but to the trained and hardy limbs of the country-bred ladsa two miles' run was a trifle, and they were only slightly flushedand winded when they paused, by mutual consent, a short distancefrom Chad, at a point where the tall turrets and battlements becamevisible over the treetops.Julian, who was a few paces in advance, pulled up short, and caughthis brother by the arm."Hist!" he whispered cautiously. "I trow the prior's spies be stillon the watch. We must not be seen coming in this guise. Let us waita few moments till our breath be returned; then we will go forwardboldly and openly."Edred, have a care how thou answerest me when I shall speak tothee anon. We have a part to play, and Brother Emmanuel's life mayhang upon how we play it."Edred nodded assent. He was more weary, because more deeplyexcited, than his brother, and no sleep had visited his eyes theprevious night. It had been spent with Brother Emmanuel in vigil inthe chantry. The strain of watching and deeply-seated anxiety wastelling upon the boy. He was glad that Julian had all his witsabout him, for his own head seemed swimming and his mind unhinged.They stood silent awhile, until both had regained their breath;then putting on their caps, which for convenience they had carriedin their hands hitherto, they started forth again at a leisurelypace, and with an air of openness and fearlessness, in thedirection of the main entrance, talking to each other as they wentin no softened tones."It was a fine sight!" cried Julian. "I would not have missed itfor worlds. That villainous hunchback! So he was a damnable hereticafter all! I grieve we ever stood his friend. May he perish likethe vile creature he is! I will ask Brother Emmanuel to set me apenance for having touched him that day when we thought him aninnocent trader."Edred, thinkest thou that it can be true that Brother Emmanuel ishimself a heretic? If it be, we must drive him forth with blows andcurses. To sit down at board with a heretic, to hear teaching fromhis lips! Beshrew me, but one might as well have a friend from thepit for an instructor! It cannot be; surely it cannot be."The boy spoke hotly and angrily. He had stopped short as if in theheat of argument, and Edred saw by the flash in his eye that he hadcaught sight of some lurking spy close at hand."Belike no," answered Edred cautiously, but taking his cueinstantly from the other. "I did not well hear what Brother Fabiansaid; surely it could be naught so bad as that?""I scarcely heard myself. I was something aweary by that time ofthe spectacle, and methought all the heretics had been dealt with.I saw that thou, like myself, wouldst fain stretch thy limbs onceagain, and I had shifted too far away to be certain what was said.But I did hear the name of Brother Emmanuel spoken, and there was acall for him, and he came not."Edred, can it be that he feared to come? Hath he a guiltyconscience? If that be so, shall we strive to find him and keepwatch upon him ourselves, that if the good prior comes to searchfor him at Chad we may be able to give him up, though he havehidden himself never so cunningly?""Marry, a good thought. It is certainly something strange that hedid not come at the prior's summons-and he a brother of the ordertoo. Sure, it looks somewhat as though he were afraid. But if thatbe so, we shall scarce find him at Chad. He will have benefited bythe absence of the household to make good his escape."Beshrew me, but he is a crafty knave. Who would have thought it ofhim?""When men turn heretic they seem to be indued with all the cunningof the devil!" cried Julian hotly. "But let us not dally here; letus run within and strive to seek and to find him. It may be he willthink he may hide himself the better in some nook or corner of thehouse, since he be well known all around; and the good prior saidsomewhat of having kept a watch upon him. But I trow he cannot hideso well but what we shall find him. I would fain earn myforgiveness for having shielded one heretic by helping to give upanother."Come, Edred, let us be going. Those priests are as crafty as foxeswhen the heretic leaven gets into them."The brothers dashed away again towards the house; and when oncewithin the shelter of the walls, Julian nipped his brother's hand,saying in a whisper:"There was a spy overhead who drank in every word. He had no notionmine eyes had seen him, for he was marvellous well concealed, and Inever should have found his hiding place had I not chanced one dayto see him climbing into it. Nobody will suspect now that we havehad a hand in the hiding of the good brother. But let us make allhaste, for no man knows when the bloodhounds may be upon us tostrive to take him away."Edred's face was very pale, but steady and resolved. He understood,better perhaps than his younger brother, the peril of theenterprise upon which they had embarked. But he did not shrink fromthat one whit, only he did hope and trust that his father wouldnever be implicated by their conduct; for if, after all, the priestwere to be found hidden within the precincts of Chad, it was easyto prophesy a great reverse of fortune to all who dwelt therein.However, even that consideration did not move him at this moment.Brother Emmanuel, their preceptor and friend and comrade (for hehad been all three to his pupils during his residence beneath theirroof), stood in deadly peril of his life, and to save him from themalice of his foes must be the first consideration now. Theexistence of the secret chamber was not known even to their father.Not a soul in the house or in the world knew of it save the threebrothers and Warbel. Warbel was absolutely to be trusted. He owedtoo much himself to that retreat to wish to betray its existence toothers, and he loathed and hated the whole household of Mortimer;and it was very plain to all concerned that Mortimer was workinghand in hand with the prior in this matter--the one to obtainpossession of the person of the offending monk, the other to findcause of accusation against the owner of Chad for harbouring andconcealing a suspected person, in defiance of the laws of the landand of the Church.That there was conspiracy afoot against Chad and its master Edreddid not for a moment doubt; but the first consideration must now bethe safe hiding of Brother Emmanuel, and the boys dashed eagerlythrough the empty house, to find him in the little chantry, whereso many of his hours were spent.He was reading the office of vespers without any congregation toassist. Instinctive reverence caused the boys to kneel in silencetill the brief service concluded, and then, after prostratingthemselves before the altar, they beckoned vehemently to the monkto follow them, and conducted him up a narrow winding stair, butlittle used, to the large sleeping chamber which the three brothershad shared ever since their early childhood.Once there Julian carefully locked the door, whilst Edred in briefand graphic words told the story of that day's spectacle. BrotherEmmanuel listened calmly, with his features set into an expressionwhich the boys were beginning to know well, although they did notread its meaning aright. Sternness and resolve were strangelyblended with an infinite compassion and a look of almost divinetenderness; his words were few, and carried little of their meaninghome to the hearts of the boys."And thus they strive, thus they think to check the growth of theevil weed by fire and by the sword! Yet even nature may teach themthat the burned field only yields the richer crop, and that theplough tearing its way along is a fertilizer of the earth. Would toheaven they would send forth evangelists from the Church, not withfire and sword, but with the sword of the Spirit--the Word ofGod--with the lamp of life in their hands; not to deny the peoplethat life-giving fount, but to give them to drink through thechannels God Himself has appointed! Then, indeed, methinks heresywould soon cease to exist. But theirs is not the way; God whodwelleth in the heavens will soon show them that. Theirs is not theway!"But time there was none now for one of those conversations in whichEdred's heart delighted. Julian burst in then with the story of thelatest scene in that solemn spectacle--of the whispered words ofBrother Fabian; of the call for Brother Emmanuel; of the appealmade to Sir Oliver, and his reply; and finally of the certaintythat the house would speedily be searched, and the necessity ofgetting into safe hiding before that happened."Safe hiding!" said Brother Emmanuel with a slight smile; "my kindpupils, there can be no safe hiding from the messengers sent forthfrom the Church. Wherever I am they will find and drag me forth. Iam grateful for all the goodness shown to me at Chad by all withinits walls; but none shall suffer on my account. It hath not pleasedGod to open to me a way of escape, wherefore I must now yieldmyself to the will of my enemies; and it were better to go forthand be taken by the spies without than to remain here a source ofperil to those within these walls.""But there is yet another way!" cried Edred with flashing eyes."Thou shalt not go forth, and yet thou shalt not be a source ofperil to any living soul. Brother Emmanuel, methinks it was God'sdoing, or that of the holy saints, that this hap befell us whichrevealed to us a safe hiding place of which none knows butourselves, not even our father and mother, and the secret of whichwe have preserved unto this day, resisting the temptation todivulge it to any living soul. Time presses. When we are there Iwill tell thee all the tale--how this secret place came to ourknowledge. But now let us tarry no longer, but come quickly and seefor thyself. Once within that friendly shelter thou wilt havenaught to fear save the loneliness to which thou art well used."See, there is Julian already opening the door. Come, my father,come!"Julian had kindled the little lamp the boys had constructed forthemselves, and which was much upon the principle of a modernbull's-eye, and could be safely carried through draughty passageswithout flickering or going out; and now the wondering monk allowedEdred to take him by the hand and lead him step by step along thenarrow, tortuous passage. Julian closed the door behind them,showing how the cleverly-contrived spring acted; then theyproceeded step by step in cautious silence--for this passageskirted a great portion of the house, and was very long--towardstheir destination, till at last they stood within the secretchamber itself; and Julian extinguished the light, to let theevening sunshine filter in and show how much of illumination itcould give."Now, Brother Emmanuel, let us show you all," said Edred eagerly;"for methinks it must be very few visits we must pay thee, andthose at dead of night. For I much mistake me if we be not closelywatched by some spy of the prior's these next days, and it will notdo for any to think we have hidden haunts of our own.""Nay, nay, my children; ye must not run into peril for me. Farrather would I--""I know--I know!" cried Edred. "But in truth thou needst not fearto rest here. This is the lost chamber, the secret of which hadperished for well nigh a generation, till kindly fortune made itknown to us. All men think that the chamber lay in the portion ofChad that was destroyed in the late wars. None dream it stillexists. But here it is, and Bertram has made out little by littleexactly where it lies, and I will tell it thee."This portion at the lower and darker end is jammed in betwixt theceiled roof of the great gun room and that attic chamber where thedry roots are stored away in the winter months before the frostbinds them into the ground. None enter that attic in the summertidesave rats and mice, and though there may be many passing to and froin the gun room, no sound from here can penetrate there; for wehave tried times and again, when there has been none by to hear, ifwe can make each other hear sounds from either place. From the gunroom noise will, if very great, penetrate hither; but nothing thoucanst do will make them below hear thee."Then this wider and lighter and loftier portion, where the lightcomes in, is but a space filched away from the roofs and leads, andjammed in in such a fashion that it would defy a magician to findit from without. We tried days and days and could not do it, andnever did, albeit we can climb like cats and had an inkling whereit was--until we put Julian within to shout aloud and guide us byhis voice. It is so placed that none can get really nigh to thoseplaces where the cracks are made to let in the light and air. Thouneedst not fear, though all the monks in the priory come to search,that this hiding place will ever be found."The monk looked around the narrow chamber and drew an involuntarybreath of relief. If indeed this thing were so, if indeed he mightlie hidden from discovery and defy the most stringent search, mightit not be a God-appointed means of salvation for him? Might he notbe doing wrong in insisting upon falling into the hands of men?Would it indeed be possible for him to secrete himself withoutbringing down upon others the wrath he himself would escape?Whilst he stood thus debating with himself, the boys pulled him bythe sleeve and spoke eagerly, though involuntarily in low tones."And see further. Here is food laid up against this day. It willall keep for many weeks. It is but poor fare, but not poorer thanthou art well used to--salted meat, and dried fish, and oaten cake;which keeps moist far longer than any other. Here are a fewconfections, and here is wine, and a jar of good mead. As forwater, it may be had at this trough here, and a goodly supply; onlyit comes with somewhat of a rush, and the bung is not easily rammedback in its place. It is best to raise the tube--so--in the hand;but we could not make shift to do better. There is the lantern, andoil in this vessel, and none can see the light at night from anyplace when it is burned. I have placed three books in you corner--Idared not take more from the library; but I knew thou wouldst havethy breviary with thee, and thou art never dull. If it may be donesafely, one of us will visit thee from time to time; and if thereis any way of escape open to thee, thou shalt surely hear thereof."But be not dismayed if days go by and thou hearest naught. It maybe safer that thou shouldst be left quite alone. Thou wilt notthink thyself forgotten?"Brother Emmanuel's eyes were fixed with a tender gaze upon thefaces of the bold, generous boys. He took their hands in his, andthey bent the knee to receive his blessing. His words were few andbrief, but each lad as he rose resolved deep down in his heart thathe would suffer the penalty of death itself sooner than betray thesecret hiding place and give the brother up to his foes.Then with a few more last words respecting the hiding place and thearrangements made for the comfort of its occupant, the pair stoleaway, and soon found themselves safely within the walls of theirown room, the door of which was still safely locked. They lookedeach other in the face with a proud, glad smile."It is done!" cried Edred, drawing a long breath."Nay, not altogether," answered Julian, with eyes that flashed withexcitement; and drawing a step nearer his brother, he said inchanged tones, "Now must that rascally priest have fled, and itbehoves us to search the precincts of the place with all diligence.We must not leave a nook or a cranny unvisited, and must make amighty coil. Thou takest me, brother, dost thou not?"Edred made a quick, eager sign of assent."Ay, Julian, I do; and when we have done all that, let us back tothe priory again. We must whisper in our father's ear that BrotherEmmanuel is safe. Then will he act with a freer hand. And it werebetter, perchance, that we were all there to ride back with himwhen he takes his leave."Julian assented at once to this proposition; and forth went theboys, at first calling aloud the name of their tutor, and thenhalting, always within earshot of one of the spies, to debate wherehe could have concealed himself, darting hither and thither, as ifsuddenly remembering some new place, and ever returningdisappointed and vexed."He is a veritable fox!" cried Julian, flinging his cap on theground in a well-assumed tempest of chagrin. "He must have leftChad altogether, for not a trace of him is here; and I looked tohave the pleasure of bringing him ourselves before the reverendprior, to atone for having helped that other pestilent fellow toavoid for a while the hand of the law. A plague upon him and hiscunning ways! Unless he have found the secret chamber our fatherknows of, and which he once took us to see, there be no other placein all Chad where he can be lurking, unless he has been moving fromspot to spot at our approach. A pest upon the crafty rogue!""We shall do no good loitering here, since he be really gone,"remarked Edred, in a tone of vexation very like his brother's;"perchance he may have fallen into the hands of the prior throughthe watch of which he spoke. I trust it may be so. But for us, Itrow we had better go back to see the end of the day's spectacle.We can do no more at Chad. If he is hiding he will not dare comeforth now, with all the folks returning so soon; and if he has gotclean away, nothing we can do will bring him back."Julian grumbled in the finest phrases he could think of as the twopursued their way back towards the priory, increasing their speedas they left Chad behind, and very quickly gaining the meadow,where the servants were already beginning to collect the horses andget them ready for their masters.The day's proceedings were over. Refreshments were being served inthe refectory to all of the better sort. Sir Oliver's two youngersons had never been missed; but Edred contrived to slip into thehall, and in passing beside his father's chair to whisper in hisear the four simple words:"Brother Emmanuel is safe!"None heard the whisper, not even Bertram, who was sitting next hisfather, though he read it in his brother's eye the next moment.Edred had affected to catch the clasp of his belt against hisfather's chair as he passed by, and in pausing to free it had benthis head and spoken the brief message.No change passed over Sir Oliver's face. Not a creature presentobserved the trifling by-play. Wine had circulated freely, and muchlaughing and talking were going on. The prior had unbent from hisjudicial severity, and even the Lord of Mortimer was smiling andbland, although there was something in his aspect that suggestedthe fierce feline play of a man-eating creature biding its time andtoying with its victim.Just before the close of the feast Sir Oliver rose to his feet."My lord prior, and you knights and gentlemen," he said suddenly,addressing all those who sat at the board in one comprehensiveglance round the table. "I have been not a little disturbed andastonished today by hearing that there is ill known of one who hasbeen long a member of my household--Brother Emmanuel--whom thereverend prior himself sent forth to be the instructor of my sons,and who has always comported himself right reverently and seemly inmy house. But inasmuch as there is cause of offence in him, andthat he has this day refused obedience to his lawful superior, andhas not come at the bidding of the prior, I cannot but own him infault, and decline to have further dealings with him. I do not knowwhether he is yet at Chad. I have not seen him since his farewelllast evening. But if he be yet there, let the Lord of Mortimer, oryou, holy father, send a company of servants to bring him thence."I have heard it whispered around that he is hiding within thewalls of Chad, and that we of that household know where he lurks.My reply to that whisper is a denial (which I will take upon oathif need be) that I know aught whatever about him; and furthermore,I will throw open my house, upon any day and at any time, towhatever persons shall be sent to seek him, and will aid them inevery possible way in the finding of the offender."A murmur of approval went round the company. The prior lookedpleased, and a smile crossed his face.The only person who did not seem gratified by this openness was theLord of Mortimer, whose face contracted sourly, and who gave a keenglance at his rival, as though he would have read his very soul.But the calm gaze with which Sir Oliver returned this look did notappear to restore his equanimity, and he flashed a glance at hisson-in-law which plainly betokened surprise and chagrin."Well spoken, Sir Oliver," said the prior; "and since I haveexcellent reason to know that the brother has not left Chad, andcannot do it without my knowledge, it is plain to me that he ishiding in some place there, albeit all unknown to you and yours.Wherefore, on the morrow, I myself, together with my good friendthe Lord of Mortimer, will present ourselves at Chad, and make fullsearch, and we shall no doubt find the heretic monk cowering awayin some undreamed-of hiding place, and will drag him thence to thefate he so well merits."Chad has its secrets, has it not? I have heard of them in daysgone by.""It has several cunning nooks and crannies, but all of these will Imyself display to you upon the morrow," replied the knight calmly;and the Lord of Mortimer arose with a crafty smile upon his face,and addressed the prior in these words:"Reverend father, I do not willingly speak ill of my neighbours,least of all of one who is now near akin to me through the marriageof my daughter with Sir Edward, who comes of the old stock of Chad.Yet I cannot but state here, in this place, that I hold Sir Oliverto have drawn down suspicion upon himself by failing to give upBrother Emmanuel a week ago when it was demanded of him. There besomething to my mind strange and unworthy in such an act; and Ihere call upon all men to witness that I verily believe we shallfind this traitor monk sheltering within the walls of Chad, andthat if this be so I shall openly accuse Sir Oliver before all theworld--before the king himself--of harbouring traitors andheretics, and shall make petition that Chad and all that pertainsto it be forfeit, as the penalty for such evil courses, and begiven to the rightful lord by inheritance--Sir Edward Chadwell."The partisans of Mortimer raised a cheer; those of Chad receivedthe challenge with groans and curses. Sir Oliver spoke not a word,but sat with his head proudly erect, and his eyes gleaming somewhatdangerously; whilst the prior commanded silence by a gesture of hishand, and spoke to quell the tumult."My Lord of Mortimer, I have far more trust than you in theintegrity of good Sir Oliver. I trow he will be able to clearhimself of whatever suspicions lie upon him; and if the monk befound within his house, he shall have every opportunity ofexplaining his presence there. At the same time, I will not denythat it will look ill for him if he be found there; and that thetongues of all suspicious persons may be silenced, so that noneshall say there has been opportunity for him to get the monksecretly away from the place, I will double the watch that hasalready been set around Chad, and I will send thither with SirOliver and his family two of my trustiest sons, Brother Fabian andBrother Nathaniel, to keep strict watch within doors, that there beno cause for any enemy to say that any there have aided an unlawfulescape, or have striven to hide a miscreant from those who justlydemand him."Sir Oliver bent his head."Any brother coming from Chadwater will be an honoured guest atChad," he said. "I was about to ask if Brother Fabian was to besent thither to instruct my sons.""Ay, and to find out what germs of heresy yon false monk may nothave implanted!" cried Lord Mortimer, losing control of himself ashe saw the calmness of his enemy, and felt that the prey he had soconfidently looked to be his might even now slip from his grasp."It was those lads from Chad who strove to protect yon miserablehunchback who will be burned to ashes for his sins ere three moredays have gone by. How explain you such conduct as that, SirOliver? Are you and your dame rearing up a heretic brood, to cumberthe land in days to come?"But the prior here interposed somewhat sternly. He had no intentionof allowing his table to be made the scene of a disturbance thatmight lead to bloodshed. He turned somewhat sternly upon thehaughty baron, and his words were few and plain."My Lord of Mortimer, Sir Oliver has answered to me for thatoffence. You take something too much upon yourself in thus strivingto sit in judgment, and that in mine own presence."And now, gentlemen, the sun will be shortly setting, and some ofyou have many miles to ride. We have done the day's work in athorough and righteous fashion; and I will now give you myblessing, and dismiss you to your homes. I trust this may be thelast time that I have to assemble you together to drive fromamongst us those who are tainted by the curse of heresy."Half an hour later the party for Chad were riding quietly homewardthrough the forest with two cowled monks in their company. The lastcharge to these from the prior had been:"Thou, Brother Fabian, keep a sharp eye by night and by day uponthe boys; and thou, Brother Nathaniel, upon the knight and hislady. If any of those are in the secret, be it your mission to findout and bring it home to them."Chapter IX: The Search."If Brother Emmanuel is found, Chad will be forfeit."Such was the burden of Edred's thoughts as he rode homeward at hisbrothers' side, just behind their father and mother, at the closeof that eventful day's proceedings.It was a thought that could not but be fraught with some terror tothe boy, who knew that he had been instrumental in hiding thethreatened monk, and that if by some gruesome chance the secretwere to be discovered, their bitter enemy would make it an excusefor prosecuting his malicious and covetous purpose towards Chadwith redoubled ardour, and with every prospect of success. Atpresent the prior was standing neutral betwixt the two foes; atpresent the king was well disposed towards Sir Oliver. But shouldit be proved beyond dispute that he had set the Church at defiance,and had harboured a suspected heretic within his walls, then theprior would at once turn against him, and representations would bemade to the king which would almost force him to turn away hisfavour. The Lord of Chad would be a disgraced and suspected person,whilst in all probability the wiles of the ambitious Mortimer wouldprove successful, and the claim of Sir Edward Chadwell would beadmitted, and the estate pass into his hands.The thought was maddening. The bare idea of being forced to leavethe old home sent the hot blood coursing through the boy's body. Ifsuch a thing as that were to befall them, it would break theirfather's heart. And how should he ever hold up his head again,knowing that in some sort he had been the author of the mischief?All the brothers had been heart and soul together in their desireto hide the brother from the wrath and unjust tyranny of the prior;but Edred felt as though the greatest responsibility had been his,though he could scarcely have said why.Julian had certainly taken the lead in the final act of the drama;but Julian was yet a boy, and did not thoroughly realize the perilswhich might follow such a course. Edred did, and his face was graveand thoughtful; and when from time to time he stole a glance atBertram, he saw that his elder brother's face was overcast andanxious, too.They did not dare to exchange a single word upon the subjectnearest to their hearts as they rode decorously behind theirparents and the two monks. The whole train had to restrain theirhorses to the ambling pace of the steed bestridden by the monks,who were by no means skilled riders; and dusk had fallen ere theyall rode into the courtyard of Chad, where the bustle ofdismounting afforded the brothers the chance of escaping for a fewminutes to their upper chamber together."We must not stay a minute; the spies will be after us!" whisperedBertram. "But one question I must ask. Is he there?""Yea, verily; and none need visit him for many days. It were betternot."But, brothers both, lend me your strong arms here. I would movethis great chest across the fireplace. Ask no question; I will showyou why anon."Edred was the speaker, and he indicated an enormous carved oakchest quite twelve feet in length, which was kept in this room tohold the clothing of the three lads. They did from time to timechange its position in the room, so that no remark would be excitedby the fact that it had been moved. As Edred wished to place itnow, it would stand right across the fireplace, blocking entirelythe secret door; but Bertram looked a little doubtfully at it whenit was in place, saying tentatively:"Thou dost not think it would draw attention to the carved pillarsof the fireplace? We shall have cunning and crafty men to deal withon the morrow."Edred smiled slightly."Wait till the morrow comes, and thou shalt see," he answered; andthen the brothers hastened down again, knowing that any suddendisappearance on their part might be marked and held as suspicious.They had not, however, been gone long enough to be missed, and thetwo monks who had been told off to keep watch within this house hadbut just made their way into the hall, where hot spiced wine wasbeing dispensed, and the table set out for supper.Notwithstanding the feast recently partaken of at the priory, thebrothers appeared by no means loath to sit down once again, andEdred could not but observe how differently they comportedthemselves from Brother Emmanuel, and how thoroughly theyappreciated the dainty viands which were brought out in theirhonour.He did not mean to sit in judgment--he scarcely knew that he wasdoing so; yet as be watched their deep potations, and marked howthey chose the best portions, and stinted themselves in no goodthing, his stern young mind could not but rise up in revolt, themore so that these very men were actually here on purpose to striveto capture a brother of their own order, and deliver him over todeath. And so far as the youth understood the matter, the offencefor which it was resolved he should suffer was that he was toofaithful to the vows he had taken upon himself, and too ardent instriving to enforce upon others the rules he held binding uponhimself.But at least if these brothers ate and drank merrily, they were nottherefore the better watchers. They had smiled a little scornfullyas he contrasted their good feeding and deep drinking andsubsequent visible sleepiness with the spare and frugal meal alwaystaken by Brother Emmanuel, to be followed as often as not by a longnight vigil in the chantry. There was small look of watchfulnessabout these men. Any vigil kept by them would be but a mockery ofthe term. It was all they could do to stumble through the office ofcompline when the meal was ended and the household about to retire,and there was no suggestion on their part of wishing to remain tokeep vigil.But Edred resolved that he would watch again that night. He haddone so the previous night with Brother Emmanuel, both thinkingthat it might be the last watch they would ever hold together. Nowthe boy felt that he could not sleep, at least for many hours; andsince their mother had whispered to them that Brother Fabian was toshare their room, since he said it was his duty to keep watch uponthe boys till next morning, it seemed well to leave his bed for thedrowsy monk, aid keep vigil himself in the silent chantry.The brother looked puzzled when he heard what one of his youngcharges proposed to do. Edred looked him full in the face as heanswered:"Brother Emmanuel taught us that it were not well that all withinthe house should be sleeping. We know not when the Lord mayappear--at midnight, at cock crowing, or in the morning; andmethinks whenever He may come, He would gladly find one soulholding vigil and waiting for His appearing. Lock the door of thechantry upon me, my father. Thou canst see that there is but theone door by which we may come or go. If thou fearest to leave mehere, lock the door upon me until such time as it pleases thee torelease me."The brother regarded the boy with perplexed looks, and slowly shookhis head, as though such an attitude of mind were whollyincomprehensible. But he did not oppose his resolve. It would notdo to appear astonished at the idea of keeping vigil. He passed outof the chantry muttering to himself, and Edred prostrated himselfbefore the altar, above which the solitary lamp burned clear andbright, and offered up most earnest prayers for the safety ofBrother Emmanuel, for the failure and discomfiture of his foes, andfor his safe escape when the time was ripe into some country wherehis enemies were not like to find him.How the hours of the night passed he scarcely knew. He mightperhaps have slept at his post awhile, or have remained in a dreamyand passive state; for it did not seem long before the morning suncame glinting in at the eastern window, and the boy saw that theday had come which was to be a momentous one to Chad.Before very long, sounds of life about, and later on within thehouse, warned him that he was not the only watcher now; and feelingvery drowsy and weary, he resolved to creep upstairs and shareJulian's couch for the remaining hours before the working dayshould commence.He had not been locked into the chantry. Perhaps Brother Fabianfelt a little shame in his suspicions, or perhaps he forgot to takethe precaution. The door yielded to his touch, and he found himselfat liberty to go where he would.But before turning his steps to his room upstairs, he made anexpedition to an outhouse on what appeared to be a curious errand.It was a dirty, neglected place, and was full of dust and flue andcobweb. The boy began deliberately collecting masses of this flueand web, and presently he swept up carefully a good-sized heap ofdust, which he as deliberately placed in a wooden box, andproceeded to make in one end a number of small holes.Carefully carrying away this strange load, and bearing it withgreat secrecy, the boy mounted the stairs very softly, and put downthe handkerchief in which the flue was placed in the small unusedroom beside their sleeping chamber. With the box still in his handshe stole on tiptoe into the room and looked carefully round him.His brothers were sleeping lightly, looking as though they would beeasily and speedily aroused. But the monk was snoring deeply, andthe bloated face which was turned towards him displayed thatabandonment of repose which bespeaks a very sound and even sottishslumber.The boy looked with repulsion at the flushed face, the open mouth,and dropped jaw. Something in the expression of that sleeping facefilled him with scorn and loathing. No danger of this man'sawakening; his half-drunken sleep was far too heavy and sodden.Edred stepped lightly across the room towards the chest which hehad had moved the previous evening, and lying at full length alongthe floor, he proceeded to shake his box after the manner of apepper pot until he had made beneath the chest a soft layer of dustwhich looked like the accumulation of weeks. It was deftly andskilfully done, and although he looked critically at the aftereffect, to make sure there was nothing artificial about the aspect,he could not detect anything amiss.The next step was to carry away his box, empty it out of a window,and break in pieces the perforated part, that there might be notracing his action in this matter. Then gaining possession of hishandkerchief full of flue, he stole softly back again, and laidgreat flakes between the legs of the chest and the wall, stuffedlight fragments into the interstices of the carving, and laid themupon any projecting ledge that was likely to have caught such lightdirt as it filtered through the air.A soft movement in the room told him that his brothers were awakeand watching him, though the monk still snored on in his stertorousfashion. One after the other the pair stole from their beds andlooked for a moment at this skilful travesty of nature's handiwork,and both nodded in token of approval and congratulation.Edred had an artist's eye for effect, and did not spoil hishandiwork by overdoing it. The result produced was exactly as ifthe chest had stood for some time in its present position, so thatthe dust had gathered beneath it and the flue had clung to the wallbehind it. No one looking at its position there could doubt that ithad been there for a period of some weeks.Satisfied with the result of his manoeuvre, the boy flung away therest of his spoil, and throwing himself upon one of his brothers'beds was soon lost in healthy sleep.When he awoke the sun was high in the sky, and he found himselfalone with Father Fabian, who appeared likewise only just to haveawakened.Brother Emmanuel would long ago have held early mass in thechantry, but this new inmate appeared by no means disposed tofollow in the footsteps of his predecessors. He rubbed his eyes,and seemed scarce to know where he was; but he accepted Edred'soffers of assistance, and was soon ready to leave the room insearch of the meal to which he was accustomed.All Chad was in a stir of expectation. It was known throughout thehouse that a great search was to be instituted after the missingpriest, who had, as it were, disappeared into thin air.Everybody knew that he had been within the precincts of Chad uponthe previous day. Some amongst the few servants who had been leftbehind to take care of the house had seen him moving quietly aboutfrom the chantry to the courtyard and back. It was now well knownthat spies were lurking in the forest round Chad with a view ofintercepting any attempt at flight, and it was plain they had seennothing of him. Therefore, unless he had escaped their vigilance bycunning and artifice, he must still be somewhere within theprecincts of the house; and on the whole this appeared the mostprobable theory. In a place like Chad, where there were all mannerof outbuildings, sheds, and lofts; to say nothing of all thecorners and hiding places within the house itself, it would be verytempting to take refuge in one of these nooks and crannies, and totrust to the chance of concealment rather than run the gauntlet ofmeeting foes in the open.Brothers from the monasteries, to say nothing of hunted heretics,had the reputation of being marvellous cunning in their methods. Itwas like enough that Brother Emmanuel had long been planning somesuch concealment for himself, and had made his plans cleverly andastutely. Such was the prevailing opinion at Chad, and scarcely amember of the household but hoped and trusted his hiding placewould not be detected, even though they did not know how seriouslythe fortunes of their master might be affected were the monk to befound hidden in his house.They all loved Brother Emmanuel for his own sake, and hated theLord of Mortimer. And it was well known that that haughty baron wasmaking common cause with the prior of Chadwater in this matter,doubtless in the hope of disgracing Sir Oliver in the eyes of theecclesiastical powers.So a general feeling of excitement and uncertainty prevailed duringthe early hours of the morning. Sir Oliver and his wife strove toappear calm and tranquil, but inwardly they were consumed byanxiety. They felt something very much approaching certainty thattheir own sons knew what had befallen the monk--probably his veryhiding-place; and they were by no means certain that it might notbe within the very precincts of Chad itself. The knight'sgenerosity and love of justice were sufficiently stirred to makehim willing to run some risk in the cause; he had resolved to askno question, and to let matters take their own course. But he couldnot help feeling a tremor run through him as he heard the windingof the horn which bespoke the presence of the visitors at his gate,and he went forth to meet them with a sinking heart, albeit hismien was calm and untroubled and his bearing dignified and assured.The prior and the Lord of Mortimer headed the train, and behindfollowed a goodly retinue of men wearing the livery of the baron,to say nothing of the lay brothers and the cowled monks, who wereskilful in matters pertaining to search, and who had come to assistin the examination of the whole of the great house.Upon the face of Lord Mortimer and upon that of his son-in-lawthere was an ill-disguised look of vindictive triumph. It was easyto see that they were fully assured of the presence of the fugitivewithin these walls, and that they did not mean to leave until hehad been dragged forth from his hiding place.The guests of the better quality were respectfully conducted intothe great hall, and refreshments were placed before them. SirOliver put his whole house and possessions into the hands of theprior, who was invited to make any kind of investigation andexamination that he thought necessary. The knight repeated what hehad said the previous day as to his entire ignorance where the monkwas hiding, and whether he was hiding at all. But no obstacle ofany kind would be placed by him against the most stringent search,and he would either accompany the searchers or remain passive wherehe was, exactly as the reverend father judged best.This statement was well received by the prior, who turned to theLord of Mortimer and suggested that in the first place his armedtroopers, who were well used to this kind of work, should make astrict search through all the outbuildings of whatever kind,posting his men wherever he thought needful, and taking any stepssuch as the smoking of chimneys and kindred methods that might inany wise be likely to dislodge the fugitive. Meantime the rest ofthe party would remain where they were, and the house should onlybe searched if it was made clear that the monk was not hidingwithout.Lord Mortimer retired to give his orders, and the rest of thecompany remained in the hall. The boys would better have liked thehouse searched first, that their anxiety might be the soonerrelieved. It was keeping them on tenterhooks all this time, as theyknew well that no result could accrue from any search of the outeryards or buildings, and it was hard to wait all that time inuncertainty and suspense.But they heard the order given without making any sign. It was wellfor them at this crisis that they had been trained in habits ofself control and reserve. No one, to look at the three boys, wouldhave guessed them to be greatly interested in the proceedings. Theyremained standing in the background, with an air of quiet respectand submission appropriate to the young in presence of theirspiritual superiors. The prior, as his keen eye travelled over thefaces in the hall, never suspected for a moment that those threequiet lads knew aught of this matter. But, pleased by their air andbearing, he called them to him and asked them some questions, toassure himself that they had been properly taught by therecalcitrant monk whom now he had resolved to find and to punishfor his rebellion and temerity.The boys replied with such ready intelligence and so much actuallearning that he could not but be pleased with them. Edred, inparticular, showed such readiness and aptitude that the prior wassurprised, and laying a kindly hand upon the boy's head, asked himhow soon they would be welcoming him at Chadwater.The youth looked up with grave, thoughtful eyes."I know not that, my father. I have had thoughts of the religiouslife; but--""Well, boy, what is the 'but'?" asked the prior with a smile, but akeen flash of the eye which did not pass unheeded.Edred saw the flash, and was put at once upon his guard. This wasnot Brother Emmanuel, to whom he could open his whole soul and askcounsel and advice."I misdoubt me at times if I be fit for the life," he answered."There is too much of the world in my heart, I fear me. I used tothink I was fit to be a monk, but I am the less sure now.""Well, well, I would fain have a promising lad like thee beneath mycare; but there is time to talk of that later."Well, my Lord of Mortimer, how goes the search? Is all in trainfor it?""Ay, reverend father; and I trow if the miscreant be in hidinganywhere without the house, he will shortly be brought before us. Iam no novice in this manner of work, and I have laid my plans thathe will scarce escape us. If that fail, we must try the houseitself. It will go hard if we find him not somewhere. We have fullinformation that he has not left the place;" and here he flashed aninsolent look of triumph at Sir Oliver, who took not the smallestnotice either of the speech or the look.Edred retired to his former place beside his brothers, and theparty awaited the result of the search with what patience theymight. Now and then shouts and calls broke the stillness, and faceswould flush with excitement at the sound; but the shouts alwaysdied away again into silence, and at last there came a trooper intothe hall to salute the company and report that there was no onehidden in any of the places without. Not a rat or a mouse couldhave failed to be turned out after the stringent search to whichthe premises had been subjected.The Lord of Mortimer then rose and said:"Keep the men posted as I have given orders. Let none stir from hisvantage ground. And be thou there to see that the closest watch iskept. We go in person to search the house, and if any living thingseeks to make escape by door or window, it will be thine office andthat of thy men to seize and hold him.""We will not fail, my lord," said the man, who again saluted andwithdrew.Then the prior rose and called his monks about him, whilst the Lordof Mortimer did the like with his followers."Sir Oliver," said the prior, "I would have spared you thisunwelcome formality had it been possible, but my duty must be done.I will ask you to be our conductor throughout the house, and willcrave permission to post my servants hither and thither about thepassages as seems to me best, and to take such steps as shallappear needful for proving to the satisfaction of all that thistraitor monk is not hidden within your walls."Sir Oliver bent his head."Take what steps you will, reverend father; I and mine are at yourdisposal. Whatever means you desire to use, do so withouthesitation. Shall my people arm themselves with tools to removepanelling or flooring? You have but to command them; they shallinstantly obey."The Lord of Mortimer again looked taken aback for a moment. Therewas a confidence in Sir Oliver's manner that did not appear to beassumed. He would have preferred another aspect in his foe."We have brought all things needful for a rigorous search,"answered the prior. "We hope and trust nothing will be needed. Isit true that there are secret hiding places in the house, my son?It would be well, perhaps, to visit any such first.""There be two," answered Sir Oliver quietly, though his heart beatrather fast. What if Brother Emmanuel had learned the secret ofeither of those places, and had sought refuge in one? True, itwould have been worse than useless to deny their existence. Many inthe household knew of them and how they might be entered.Probably the prior or some of his monks had the trick of thosechambers by heart. Chad had been through many vicissitudes, and themonks had often been its guests. Secrets once known to them werenever allowed to be lost. It would have been idle to seek to putthe searchers off the scent. He led the way to the places where themasked doors lay--one was much after the pattern of that in theboys' chamber--and in each case himself opened the door, lettinghis guests go in to examine for themselves.Those were terrible moments for him; but the hearts of the boys didnot palpitate. Each time the search party came forth with looks ofbaffled disappointment. Each time the Lord of Mortimer's face wasdark and gloomy. He had reckoned somewhat confidently on findingthe fugitive in one of these known hiding places. He had hoped SirOliver would profess an ignorance of at least one of the two. Hisface was fierce and vindictive as the second was "drawn blank."But the excitement of the boys was slowly augmenting as the partymoved higher and higher in the house, leaving scouts posted invarious places, and, as it were, spreading a cleverly-constructednet all through Chad, which it would be impossible for any personbeing hunted from spot to spot finally to escape.The prior's idea now was that the monk might be gliding before themfrom place to place, confident that his knowledge of theintricacies of the house would give him the chance of evading themat the last. It was a desperate game, to be sure, but one that hadbeen successfully tried by others on more than one occasion. Hetherefore posted his men with great skill and acumen; and knowingthe house accurately, was able to feel secure that if this were thegame being played, the prey would sooner or later be his.Lord Mortimer, on the other hand, gave his attention to thepanelled walls, the carved chimney pieces, the flooring of the oldrooms; and many were the blows struck here and there by his orders,and great was the damage done to certain panelled rooms, in thehopes of coming upon some masked door or passage.It was this energy on his part that caused such anxiety to theboys. Suppose he were to attack the carving which really concealedthe masked door in their room? Might not his eagle eye light uponthat, too, and might not all be discovered? The boys felt almostsick with apprehension as they approached the door of their room,and Edred's whole heart went up in a voiceless prayer that nodiscovery might be made.Nothing in the aspect of the room attracted comment. All lookedmatter of fact and innocent enough, and the prior was growingsomething weary with the unavailing search. The usual thumping onthe walls was commenced; but even the carved mantel pillars were sosolid that no hollow sound was given forth when they were struck.The prior turned away."There is naught here, methinks, my Lord of Mortimer.""Wait one moment," replied the baron. "This carving be somethingdeep and ponderous. I always suspect traps when I see such painsbestowed upon it. Let me examine a while further. These grapes lookto me as if they had been fingered something often. Let me examinefurther."Edred's heart was in his mouth. It was all he could do to restrainhimself from seeking to attract the prior's attention in anotherdirection; but his sound sense told him that this suddeninterruption would be suspicious. Julian nipped him by the arm, asthose strong fingers went travelling over the carved work with direintent. Both started when the Lord of Mortimer exclaimed:"Take away yon chest; it encumbers me."The servants did his bidding in a moment; and then a sudden changecame over his face. The eager look died away. He remained awhilelooking down at the floor, which was covered with dust and flue, aswas also the carving which had been concealed behind the chest. Theprior looked down too, and shrugged his shoulders."That tells a tale, my lord. Naught has been disturbed here formany a long day. Let us pursue our search elsewhere. No fugitivecould have passed by that spot since yesterday, when BrotherEmmanuel was last seen."The baron could not but assent. He looked once again at thecarving, but he had had no real reason to suspect aught, and heturned away to go elsewhere. Another grip of the arm showed Edredhow Julian's feelings had been stirred; but the lads did not evenlook at each other as they moved on behind the company, and theynow hardly heard or heeded what passed during the remaining hour ofthat long search.For them the crisis had passed when they turned from the room wherethe secret lay. If not discovered at that awful moment when LordMortimer's hand was actually upon the bunch of grapes beneath whichlay the spring, they surely need not fear any other manoeuvre onhis part.And at last the long search ended. Even the Lord of Mortimer had toown himself beaten. Reluctantly and with scowling brow he followedthe prior back to the long banqueting hall, where the tables hadalready been laid with savoury viands. He had been worsted where hehad been most confident of success, and he was as furious as a bearrobbed of her whelps.The prior was taking Sir Oliver by the hand and speaking words ofgoodwill, professing great satisfaction at the result of thisstringent search; his only vexation being that the monk hadcontrived to give them the slip. In the back of his head the priorhad a lurking feeling that Sir Oliver had been in some sortconcerned in Brother Emmanuel's escape, and was rejoicing at it;but inasmuch as he had entirely failed to bring home any chargeagainst him, and as in all other respects he was a good neighbourand true son of the Church, he was willing enough to restore him tofavour and confidence, and was not sorry on the whole that thehaughty Lord of Mortimer was not going to have it all his own way.The astute ecclesiastic knew very well that he himself did betterfor holding a neutral position between two adversaries bothdesiring his friendship and good opinion, than he would do wereChad and Mortimer to be in the same hands. He was disappointed atnot finding the monk, but not sorry Sir Oliver stood vindicated. Heset himself down to the board with a hearty goodwill; but the baronrefused the proffered hospitality of his rival, and summoned hisattendants about him."I will say farewell this time, Sir Oliver," he said haughtily."But remember I still hold that we have only been foiled by yourcunning; not that you are innocent in this matter. If ever I canprove this thing against you, I shall do so; and I recommend thereverend prior to keep his watch still upon this house, as I fullybelieve yon traitor monk is in hiding here.""And I, my lord baron," said Sir Oliver proudly, "will give youfair warning that I will speedily to the king, to lay before himthe history of this day and the insults to which I have beensubjected through you and your groundless suspicions of me. I havenot resisted what you have chosen to do, knowing well the use youwould have made of such resistance. But I have not forgotten themany acts of aggression and hostility of which you have beenguilty; and this last day's work, in which your servants have madethemselves, as it were, masters of Chad, shall be answered for atsome future day. You have thought good to threaten me. I too willthreaten you. I threaten you with the displeasure of the king whenthis thing comes to his ears; and I shall seek him now withoutdelay, and tell him all I have suffered at your hands."Chapter X: From Peril To Safety."My son, what hast thou done to thyself?"Edred was stumbling across the courtyard, supported by Julian, hisface streaming with blood and muffled in a great kerchief. He wasunable to speak himself, but Julian spoke eagerly for him."I trow the fault is half mine. It was done in tilting. I wascareless, and saw not that Edred's guard was down. I fear me I havesomething hurt him. I trust it is not the eye. Look to it quickly,sweet mother. It was a nasty blow.""It is not of serious nature," muttered Edred through hiswrappings; "it will be well right quickly."The mother hurried the two boys into a small room of her own whereshe kept medicaments of various kinds, and where all wounds of atrifling character were washed and dressed. Julian hurried to fetchher all she needed; and just at that moment Sir Oliver came hastilyin looking for his wife."How now, Edred?" he exclaimed. "Hast thou been in the wars again?"for Edred was something famed for getting hard knocks and uglyscratches in his mimic encounters with his more skilled anddexterous brothers. "Why, boy, but this is a worse business thanusual. I am sorry for it, for I had something purposed to take theewith me to Windsor on the next morrow, as well as Bertram, and showthee to the king, and give thee a glimpse of the world of court.But if thou be in such plight as this, thou wilt scarce be fit togo.""I must await another time," muttered Edred, in the same indistinctway, and Julian added with an air of chagrin:"It was a villainous mischance. I would I had been more careful. Iam always having the ill luck to hurt Edred.""Nay, the fault is mine!" exclaimed the other boy."And now thou wilt be hindered from seeing the king and his finecourt.""Perchance thou wilt go in my stead.""Nay, that will I not. An thou stayest at home for fault of mine, Iwill stay to keep thee company."Now, gentle mother, prithee see if he be much hurt. I cannot resttill I know."The lady was ready now to make her examination, and gently removedthe rude wrappings the boys had made for themselves. Edred's facepresented an ugly appearance as these were taken away. He had agreat gash across his brow, which passed dangerously near to theeye, and had laid open the cheek almost as far as the mouth, andknocked out one back tooth. The knight looked concerned at themagnitude of the damage, and spoke rather sharply to Julian."Thou must have a care with these weapons of thine, or thou wilt dothy brother a fatal mischief one of these days. See, boy, had thatblow of thine swerved but the half of an inch, thy brother wouldhave lost the sight of an eye forever--nay, he might have lost hislife; for an injury to the eye oft penetrates to the brain, andthen the skill of the leech is of no avail."Good wife, is thy skill sufficient for these hurts? or shall wesend to seek a surgeon's aid?""Methinks I can do all that is needful. They are ugly scratches andpainful, but not over deep. The lad will not be scarred, methinks,when the wound is well healed. See, it looks better already afterthe bathing."Run, Julian, for the roll of lint and the strapping in yoncupboard."The boy will be a sorry spectacle for a few short days, but afterthat I trow he will feel none the worse.""It is but a scratch," said Edred, speaking more freely now, thoughwith a mumbling accent, as though his lips were swollen, which,indeed, one of them was. "I scarce feel it, now it is bathed. Donot look so grave anent the matter, my father."Sir Oliver, relieved to find matters no worse, went on his way; andLady Chadgrove proceeded to bind up and plaster the bruised facewith the skill and dexterity of which she was mistress. She had noattention to spare for Julian, or she might have been surprised tonote that he secreted for himself a certain amount of the dressingshe had used, and looked on very intently whilst she applied theremainder to his brother's face.When her ministrations were accomplished, Edred was greatlydisguised. His face was almost entirely swathed in linen, and oneeye was completely bandaged up. Julian laughed aloud as he saw theobject presented by his brother; and Edred would have joined in thelaugh if he had had free play with his facial muscles.The mother looked gently scandalized."Sure, it is no laughing matter, Julian. I am not wont to make muchof these boyish mischiefs. Lads must learn to give and to take hardblows as they grow to manhood. Yet I would that thou wert somethingmore careful. Thou mightest have killed thy brother, or have causedhim life-long injury, today."Julian looked grave enough then; but Edred caressed his mothergently, saying:"Nay, chide him not. He is the best of brothers. It was as much myfault as his."And then the pair went away together, and did not pause until theyhad reached their own room, when they suddenly seized each other bythe hand and commenced cutting extraordinary capers, indicative ofa secret understanding and triumph."It could not have turned out better," said Edred, speaking stifflywith his bandaged face and swollen lips."I fear me thou dost suffer somewhat.""It is naught. I scarce feel it, now mother has bound it up. Andthy stroke was wondrous skilful, Julian--brow and eye and mouth allscratched.""The praise should be thine for standing thus rigid to let me thusmark thee. Hadst thou flinched, as many another would have done--asI should have done, I trow--it could not have been done a tithe aswell. Wrapped and bandaged as thou must be these next days to come,not a creature could know thee. Everything can be carried outaccording to the plan. Not even our father will suspect aught. Theonly fear is lest thou shouldst take a fever or somewhat of thatsort, so that they say thou must not ride forth a few miles withour father when he fares forth to Windsor at the dawning of thenext morrow after tomorrow's dawn.""No fear of that," answered Edred boldly. "I am not wont to troublea sickbed. I have had knocks and blows as hard as this before. Artsure thou hast enough of the linen and the strapping to serve thepurpose? And dost think thou canst apply it rightly? It will be thyhands, not mine, that must do all that. I shall be far away whenthe moment comes. Art sure that thou canst do all as it should bedone? Thou and Bertram will have all the last arrangements to carrythrough. How my heart will be in my mouth until I see thee and mydouble approaching in the gray light of the morning!""I trow we shall not disappoint thee!" cried the boy excitedly;adding after a moment's pause, "Methinks in the matter of artificeboth Bertram and I can beat thee, albeit thou art the best of us inother matters. What a boon that that fat, slothful, ignorant monkno longer shares this room! That might have been a rare trouble.But since he loves well the soft bed of the guest chamber in lieuof these hard pallets, he is not like to trouble us again. They puttheir trust in the spies around the house. Let their spies do theirworst, I trow we shall outwit them yet."And the boys took hands again and renewed their impromptu triumphdance. Their hearts were brimming over with satisfaction and hope.They had had a tough problem to think out during the past days, butnow it seemed in a fair way of solution.When the prior had left Chad after the banquet prepared for him, heprofessed himself perfectly satisfied that the missing BrotherEmmanuel was not concealed upon the premises yet for all that,since the Lord of Mortimer had declared himself still dissatisfied,and because the escape of the monk was difficult to credit, nothinghaving been seen or heard of him abroad, he judged it wise still tokeep his watch upon the place, that all might be satisfied that noprecaution had been left untaken.Sir Oliver had briefly, and with a slight accent of scorn, agreedwith all the prior said, and had professed himself perfectlyagreeable to the arrangement. He had nothing to hide either in hisown comings and goings or in those of any member of his household.So long as his movements were not interfered with or his libertiesinfringed, the whole forest might be alive with spies for all thathe cared. He had not known of the first watch set upon his house,and he was indifferent to the second. He should be soon leavinghome to seek the king, and all he demanded was that the sanctity ofhis house should be duly regarded in his absence. Of course theprior fully agreed to that. Indeed, after the rigorous andexhaustive search that had been already made, there was no reasonwhy any further entrance should be made into Chad.But although Sir Oliver had heard this mandate with indifferenceand contempt, it had filled the hearts of the boys with dismay. Ina week's time the vessel would sail that was to carry BrotherEmmanuel away to foreign soil, and out of the clutches of hispresent enemies; and if this guard around the house were to bemaintained all that while, what chance had they of smuggling theirfugitive away and down to the coast, as they had set their heartson doing?But inasmuch as necessity has ever been the mother of invention,and the lads were not only bold and fearless but ready of resource,they had laid their heads together with some good effect, and nowthe first and one of the most important steps of the little dramahad been carried to a successful conclusion.The next day was a busy and bustling one at Chad. Upon the morrowits lord and master rode forth to Windsor with his eldest son andthe best of his followers. There was a great burnishing of arms andgrooming and feeding of steeds. Every man was looking up his bestriding dress and putting it into spic-and-span order, and the wholeplace rang with the sound of cheery voices and the clash of steel.In and out and backwards and forwards throughout the day passed thethree boys, watching everything, asking eager questions of all, andexpressing keen interest in the whole expedition.Edred was of course a great figure. His face was all swathed up.One side was completely concealed by the wrappings, and as he foundthe light trying to even the other eye, his plumed hat was drawnlow down over his brow, so that no one would have guessed who hewas but for the fact that his mishap was well known by this time toall the household.Even after supper the restless boys could not keep still. Edred andJulian had won their father's consent to riding some few miles withhim on the morrow towards Windsor, and they ran off as soon as themeal was concluded to visit their steeds and see that their saddleswere in order. After they had done this, they sallied out by one ofthe smaller gates to take an evening stroll in the wood, callingout to the custodian of the portal that they should return by thegreat gate.They wandered away some distance into the wood; but when theyreturned it was only Bertram and Julian who entered the gate andwent up to their sleeping room. However, as nobody at the largerentrance had seen the three sally forth, no remark was occasionedby the return of only two; and it was supposed that Edred wouldhave retired early, since he was in somewhat battered plight, andhad to recover strength for the early start upon the morrow.When they reached their room that night, Bertram and Juliancarefully locked the door behind them--a precaution they did notoften take; and when they took from the great chest their own bestriding suits, they also took out Edred's and looked it well over."It will fit him to a nicety," said Bertram. "He and Edred arealmost of a height, and both slim and slightly built. His paleface, so much as may be seen beneath the white linen, will lookmightily like Edred's in the gray light of the early morn. This hathas a mighty wide brim--well that Edred affects such headgear.Pulled over his eyes, as he wore it yesterday, there be scarce afeature to be seen. We have but to say he is something late, takehim his breakfast to eat up here, and get him on to horsebackwhilst all the bustle is going on, and not even our father willknow him. He may ride past the spies with head erect and fearlessmien, for there is not one of them but saw Edred this day, and willknow at a glance who rides betwixt us twain with the white linenabout his head!"Sir Oliver had decided rather late in the day to take his lady withhim. She was in great favour always with the queen, and of latethey had heard that the health of that gracious lady was somethingfailing. It would be a graceful attention on the part of themistress of Chad to visit her and learn of her welfare, and it wasknown that the queen had considerable influence with the king, andhe might well give more favourable notice to Sir Oliver's plea werehis wife to urge it upon him in response to what the lady mighttell to her of their recent troubles with their haughty neighbour.So that there was even more stir and excitement than usuallyattended an early morning's start. The sun was not yet up, and thegray dimness of the coming summer's day enshrouded the greatcourtyard as Bertram and Julian descended to it with a slim figurebetween them clad in a riding dress similar to their own, theslouched hat drawn over the face, which face was well wrapped andmuffled in white linen, as Edred's had been the previous day.The lady of the house came out with a look of preoccupation uponher face. She noted that the boys were already in the saddle, andsmiled."Always in such haste," she said, as her own palfrey was led up."But, Edred my son, why didst thou not come to me to have thy hurtslooked to this morn? I was expecting thee.""Sweet mother, I bound them for him today!" cried Julian eagerly."Methought I must learn to be his leech since thou wast going withour father, and we knew that thou wouldst have much to do and tothink of. Methinks I have not done amiss. It scarce looks as neatas though thy skilful fingers had had the care of it; but he saysit feels not amiss, and that is a great thing.""Ay, verily; and I am glad thou hast skill enough for his needs."Be cautious, Edred my son, that the cold gets not to the hurts.Draw up the collar of thy mantle well over that left cheek ofthine, and do not talk whilst the air bites so keenly. When the sunis up all will be well; but be cautious in the first chill of thedawn."The brothers went towards their companion, and rearranged thecollar of his riding cloak so as still more to conceal his face.The hands of the younger lad were trembling somewhat; there was aquivering of the muscles of the face which betokened some repressedemotion. The muffled rider did not speak or make much movement. Heobeyed the injunction of the lady of Chad to the letter.Sir Oliver now appeared, and lifted his wife upon her palfrey. Hegave a look to see that his sons were mounted, and his servantsstanding ready to follow his example when he sprang to the saddle.Then his charger was led up, and he mounted and gave the word, andthe little cavalcade moved out through the gate and into the still,dim forest track, watched intently by more than one pair of keen,sharp, suspicious eyes."I trust when I come back," remarked the knight to his lady, "thatyon spies will have grown weary of their bootless watch, and willhave taken themselves off. It is but the malice and suspicion ofthe Lord of Mortimer which causes the prior to act so. Alone hewould never trouble himself. He knows that Brother Emmanuel is notat Chad, and has not been these many days. Wherever he be, he hasescaped the malice of his foes this time. Heaven send that he maylong escape! He was a godly and a saintly man, and no more hereticthan thou or I. If the Church will persist in warring thus againsther own truest sons, then indeed will she provoke some greatjudgment upon her own head. A house divided against itself cannever stand, and she above all others should know that."The spies had been some time passed before Sir Oliver spoke thesewords, and when he did so they were only loud enough to reach theears of his wife and of his sons, who rode immediately behind him.Two of these turned their heads for a moment to look at him whorode between them, but his face was far too well concealed for itsexpression to be seen.A few miles further on and a pause was made. Julian suggested thathe and Edred should be turning back; whilst the mother, who thoughtthat Edred was scarce fit for the saddle yet, seconded the ideawith approbation.They were passing through a very dark part of the forest, where thetrees grew dense, and where on one side the sandstone rose up in awall, quite keeping out the level rays of the rising sun. It wasalmost as dim as night in this overgrown spot.Julian sprang to his feet, and went and dutifully kissed the handboth of father and mother, and the bandaged lad with the concealedface followed his example, touching both hands reverently andgratefully, and murmuring some words of farewell that were onlyindistinctly heard in the champing of bits and stamping ofimpatient horse hoofs. Then whilst the mother still laid manycharges upon Julian to be careful of his brother, and bent a fewanxious regards upon the injured lad himself, Sir Oliver gave thesignal for riding on again, as they had a long day's journey beforethem; and the little cavalcade vanished quickly into the forest,leaving the two companions and their respective steeds standingalone in that dim place.When the last of the horses had quite vanished, and the sound oftheir steps was no longer to be heard, Julian flung his capsuddenly into the air, and uttered a long and peculiar cry.Almost immediately that cry was answered from some place near athand, and in a few minutes more a figure strangely like the onestanding at Julian's side emerged from the sheltering underwood,leading by the rein a small forest pony, such as were much used inthat part of the country. With bandaged face, hat drawn over thebrows, and collar turned up to the ears, the newcomer was the verycounterpart of the motionless figure in the path, save that thelatter wore the better dress. Julian burst into a great laugh asthe two stood facing each other; but for Edred the meeting wasfraught with too much of thankful relief for him to be able to joinin his brother's hilarity, and after standing very still for amoment, he suddenly bent his knee, and felt a hand laid upon hishead in mute blessing.Then Brother Emmanuel removed the wrappings from his head, andlooked from one brother to the other with a world of gratitude inhis dark eyes. But it was a time for action, not words, and thatmute, eloquent gaze was all that passed at present."We have a servant's dress ready in the hut hard by," said Edredquickly; "and then we must to horse again and get to the coast asfast as may be. Yon sturdy little pony good Warbel has providedwill serve us as well as any stouter nag, and look more in keepingwith the humble part thou must play this day, Brother Emmanuel.Come, let us change our dress quickly. I love not to linger in thisforest, even though we be five good miles from Chad."Julian took care of the three horses, whilst Edred and thedisguised monk made their way through the thick growth ofunderwood.When they reappeared it seemed to the boy as though the monk was asgreatly disguised now as he had been with the wrappings of linenabout his face. Certainly none but a spy on the watch and on theright scent would recognize in this serving man the youngecclesiastic of a few weeks back.There was a stubble of beard upon his lips and chin which was initself a marvellous disguise. He wore a loose riding dress, with aslouch hat and a high collar to the cloak which shaded and changedthe outline of his features. There was nothing of the monk in hislook, save perhaps in the steady glance of his eyes, where a brightintelligence and keen devotion beamed.Julian flung his cap into the air again as he cried joyously:"Why, not even the lord prior himself would know thee now. Sure,thou mightest almost have ridden past the spies themselves thushabited. We may push on in open daylight now, and none will heedthy presence."Edred had now put on the riding dress which Brother Emmanuel hadhitherto worn, so that on their return the same pair might be seento re-enter the house. The disguised monk mounted the forest ponyand followed his young masters, who pushed on quietly to the coast,feeling a greater and greater security with every mile they putbetween themselves and their home.It was the day for the sailing of the sloop that would carry themonk away to a safe retreat. They were not afraid of losing theboat, for it was not to sail till nightfall; but their impatienceacted like a spur, and drove them steadily forward; and save forthe needful halts to refresh themselves and their beasts, they didnot tarry or draw rein.It was growing towards the westering of the sun when they beheldthe great sea lying before them far below, and Edred's eyes glowedwith joy as he saw the white-winged shallops flitting hither andthither on the wide expanse of blue water, and pictured how soonBrother Emmanuel would be sailing away out of the reach of peril.Truly God had been very good in hearing and answering prayer. Edredhad, by some instinct for which he could not account, addressed hisprayers of late less to the blessed Virgin and more to the Son ofGod Himself--struck, perhaps, by the words he had heard from thelips of the heretic peddler about the "one Mediator, the man ChristJesus." He now turned in his saddle and waited till BrotherEmmanuel came up. It was too solitary a place for them to care tokeep up the appearance of master and servant.Riding thus side by side, Brother Emmanuel talked with the boys outof the fulness of his heart. His week of captivity had been spentin deep and earnest thought, and some of these thoughts wereimparted to the boys in that last serious talk. He bid them hold inall reverence and godly fear that Church which was the body ofChrist, and those ordinances which had been given at the beginningfor the perfecting of the saints, and which were God's ways ofdealing with man. But he warned them in solemn tones of the fearfuldisease which had attacked the body, and which threatened a fearfulremedy before that body could be cleansed; he warned them also ofthe perils which beset the path of those who should live to see thecoming struggle. There would be men who would vow that whatever theChurch said and did must be right because the Church was the bodyof Christ, not knowing that even that body can become corrupt(though never the Head) if the will of man be put in the stead ofthe will of God; and these would cling to the corruptions asclosely as to the ordinances of God, and become bitter persecutorsof those who would arise and seek to cleanse and renew the body byGod-given remedies. But again there would be men who would ariseand deny that there was a body, would condemn the very name of theChurch, and avow that what the Lord wanted was not a body, but anumber of individuals each seeking light and salvation in his ownfashion. That would be a fearful evil--an evil which would rend thebody into a thousand schisms, and bring down at last the heavywrath of God, who has from the beginning taught men that the bodymust be without spot or wrinkle or any such thing before it can befit to be the bride of the Lamb.The young monk earnestly strove to show the perils of both theseways to the boys who rode beside him, and his words were earnestlylistened to, and, by one at least, laid seriously to heart, to beremembered in after days almost as the words of prophecy, anddestined to have a lasting effect upon his own future career.From that day Edred renounced all thought of the monastic life,feeling that such a life would but trammel his conscience andstultify his judgment. He resolved to live his life in the world,whilst seeking to be not of the world. How that resolve was keptthere is no space in these pages to tell.Slowly and quietly the three friends jogged down into the littlefishing and trading hamlet that lay at the base of the cliffs. Inthe small bay lay one or two sloops and frigates, and it was nothard to find the owner of the one which was to sail that night andcarry Brother Emmanuel away. Julian found the man, and made allarrangements; whilst Edred saw that Brother Emmanuel made asufficient meal, and sat talking with him to the very last,drinking in new thoughts and aspirations with every word, andstriving, in the joy of knowing his beloved preceptor to be safe,to still the ache at heart which this parting involved.The sun was just setting as the boat bearing Brother Emmanuel tothe sloop pushed off from shore. The skipper resolved to set sailforthwith, and the boys stood watching whilst she shook out hercanvas to the favouring breeze, and glided like a white-winged seabird out from the shelter of the bay and into the wide ocean.There were smarting tears in Edred's eyes despite his joy andrelief. But Julian had room only for the latter feeling, and wavedhis cap with an air of exultant triumph as the sails expanded moreand more and the little vessel went skimming its way over theshining sea."He is safe, and we have saved him!" he cried with flashing eyes."Let men say what they will, but he was no heretic. I fear not butthat we have done right in the sight of God, even though we may notwhisper in the confessional this deed, nor receive priestlyabsolution therefor.""God will give us His pardon if we have done amiss," said Edredthoughtfully. "But I have no fear that He regards this deed as asin. It was done in His name, and as such will He receive it.""Yes, verily; though perchance it were better to leave such wordsunsaid. And now we must to horse and make all speed back to Chad.As it is we shall not reach it till after nightfall, and they willsomething wonder at our delay.""They will but think we went far and rested long for thy sake. Wehave travelled leisurely today to keep the horses fresh. We cantravel back in the cool right merrily. It is but twenty miles. Wecan take the most of it at a hand gallop."The boys and the horses were alike refreshed and ready for a gallopthrough the cool evening air, rushing on as fast as the nature ofthe road would let them, they reached Chad in three hours, and rodebeneath the gateway just as the old seneschal was wondering howmuch longer he must wait before he closed the gate for the night.The spies saw them ride in, as they had (to their thinking) seenthem ride out; and all unconscious that the prey had escaped theirvigilance, continued their weary and fruitless watch with thepertinacity which in so many like cases had given them success atthe last.One bright evening some three weeks later the bugle at the gate wasloudly blown, and Edred and Julian came flying out to welcome theireldest brother, who had ridden hither with some dozen servants tobring news to his brothers at home."We have had marvellous good hap. The king received us rightgraciously, and heard our story with kingly friendliness andgoodwill. He is none of your bigoted, priest-ridden monarchs; andalthough he hates true heresy, and would destroy it root andbranch, he cries shame that all enlightened men who would cleansethe Church from some of her corrupt practices should be branded bythat evil term. The great and worthy Dean Colet was called in, andhe knows well the pamphlet Brother Emmanuel wrote, and says it is awork which should be read and taken to heart by all. That such aman should be dubbed a heretic is vile and wicked; and right gladwere all to hear that he had escaped the malice of his enemies, andfled where they could not reach him. I did not dare even then totell all the tale, but I said how we had laid our heads togetherand had helped him to escape. The king and the queen themselvespraised me for our courage, and called me a good lad and a braveone not even to trouble our father with the knowledge of a secretthat might have made ill work for him."My Lord of Mortimer had not been idle. He had been before us inseeking the king; but as good chance befell, he had a quarrel withyoung Henry, the king's fiery son; and the prince was mightilyoffended, and made his sire offended likewise. Wherefore Mortimerwas something in disgrace even before we got there, and when ourstory was told he was called up before the king and prince. And allour old forest rights have been restored to us--nay, have beenwidened and increased, and that at the expense of Mortimer. Yeshould have seen his face when that mandate was brought forth andduly signed and sealed with the royal seal and delivered to ourfather! And the prior has been warned to take his spies from Chad,and the prince has promised to come and visit us, and to enjoy aweek's hunting in the forest."Bertram's breath gave out before he had well finished outpouringhis story, and the pause was filled by a great huzza, led off byJulian, and taken up by all the company, who were hearing scraps oflike information from the men-at-arms who had conducted home theheir."Our parents are constrained to remain awhile longer at court; butI hungered to bring the news to Chad, and to hear the end of thestory."Bertram here dismounted, and taking his brothers by the arm, ledthem up to their own room, which was always their favourite haunt."I see that thy face is well-nigh recovered, Edred; but it stood usin marvellous good stead. Tell me, how fared you when you partedfrom us? All went well?""Excellent well in all truth. Not a soul accosted us by the way. Wesaw him take boat to the sloop, and saw the sloop sail out of thebay. In truth, it seems like a dream now that it is all passed. Butit was a fearful time whilst it lasted.""Yet it has led to good. We are higher in favour with the king thanever, and I trow it will be long ere our haughty neighbour dares toraise his crest against us."Bertram paused smiling, and laid his hand upon the masked doorwhich had kept its secret so long."And if it be that our gracious prince doth in very truth visit ushere, methinks that to him and to him alone will we tell the wholeof the strange story, and disclose to him the trick of the secretchamber at Chad!"The End.End of Project Gutenberg's The Secret Chamber at Chad, by Evelyn Everett-Green*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SECRET CHAMBER AT CHAD ******** This file should be named 15670.txt or 15670.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/5/6/7/15670/Produced by Martin RobbUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg eBook, A Trip Abroad, by Don Carlos JanesThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: A Trip AbroadAuthor: Don Carlos JanesRelease Date: June 22, 2004  [eBook #12679]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: US-ASCII***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A TRIP ABROAD***E-text prepared by Riikka Talonpoika, Keith Eckrich, and Project GutenbergDistributed ProofreadersA TRIP ABROADAn Account of a Journey to the Earthly Canaan and the Land of theAncient PharaohsTo Which Are AppendedA Brief Consideration of the Geography and History of Palestine,and a Chapter on Churches of Christ in Great BritainBYDON CARLOS JANES1905[Illustration: "Striving for the Faith of the Gospel."Don Carlos Janes.]  _"Go, little booke, God send thee good passage,  And specially let this be thy prayere:  Unto them all that will thee read or hear,  Where thou art wrong, after their help to call,  Thee to correct in any part or all."_                                      CHAUCER.PREFACE.In this volume the author has made an effort to describe his journey toPalestine and Egypt. It is his desire that the book may be interestingand instructive to its readers. The chapter on the geography ofPalestine, if studied with a good map, will probably be helpful to many.The historic sketch of the land may serve as an outline of the importantevents in the history of that interesting country. It is desired thatthe last chapter may give American readers a better understanding of thework of churches of Christ in Great Britain.This book is not a classic, but the author has tried to give a truthfulaccount of a trip, which, to him, was full of interest and not withoutprofit. No doubt some errors will be found, but even the critical readermay make some allowance when it is known that the writing, with theexception of a small part, was done in a period of eighty days. Duringthis time, the writer was also engaged in evangelistic work, speakingevery day without a single exception, and as often as four times on someof the days. That the careful reading of the following pages may beprofitable, is the desire of THE AUTHOR.BOWLING GREEN, KY., October 21, 1905.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS.Several books have been consulted in preparing this one. "Lands of theBible," by J.W. McGarvey, has been very helpful. The same is true ofEdmund Sherman Wallace's "Jerusalem the Holy." Much information has beenobtained from the "Historical Geography of Bible Lands," by John B.Calkin. Other works consulted were: "Recent Discoveries on the TempleHill," by James King; the "Bible Atlas," by Jesse L. Hurlbut; "Galileein the Time of Christ," by Selah Merrill; "City of the Great King," byJ.T. Barclay; "Palestine," by C.R. Conder; Smith's "Bible Dictionary";"Century Dictionary and Cyclopaedia"; "Columbian Encyclopaedia," and"Encyclopaedia Britannica."The chapter on Churches of Christ in Great Britain and Ireland was readbefore publication by Bro. Ivie Campbell, Jr., of Kirkcaldy, Scotland,who made some suggestions for its improvement. Bro. J.W. McGarvey, ofLexington, Ky., kindly read the chapters on the Geography and History ofPalestine, and made some corrections. Selah Merrill, United StatesConsul at Jerusalem, has given some information embodied in the HistoricSketch of Palestine. Acknowledgement of the helpful services of my wife,and of Miss Delia Boyd, of Atpontley, Tenn., is hereby made.TABLE OF CONTENTS.  CHAPTER I.    SCOTLAND AND ENGLAND  CHAPTER II.    CROSSING EUROPE  CHAPTER III.    ASIA MINOR AND SYRIA  CHAPTER IV.    A FEW DAYS IN GALILEE  CHAPTER V.    SIGHT-SEEING IN JERUSALEM  CHAPTER VI.    SIDE TRIPS FROM JERUSALEM  CHAPTER VII.    EGYPT, THE LAND OF TOMBS AND TEMPLES  CHAPTER VIII.    GEOGRAPHY OF PALESTINE  CHAPTER IX.    HISTORIC SKETCH OF PALESTINE  CHAPTER X.    CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN GREAT BRITAINCHAPTER I.SCOTLAND AND ENGLAND.When I was a "boy on a farm," one of my school teachers had a smallmachine, which was sometimes used to print the names of students intheir books. Somehow I came to want a "printing press," and after awhile I purchased an outfit for fifteen cents, but it was a poor thingand failed to satisfy me. Accordingly, I disposed of it and spent alarger sum for a typewriter, which was little more than a toy. This,too, was unsatisfactory, and I sold it. At a later date, I bought asecond-hand typewriter, which was turned in as part payment for themachine I am now using to write this book, and now, after all thesesuccessive steps, I find myself possessed of a real typewriter. I willalso mention my youthful desire for a watch. I wanted a timepiece andthought I would like for it to be of small size. I thought of it whenawake, and, sometimes, when asleep, dreamed that I actually had thelittle watch in my possession. Since those days of dreams anddisappointments, I have had three watches, and they have all been ofsmall size.In the same way, several years ago, I became possessed of a desire tosee the Land of Promise, the earthly Canaan. I thought about it some,and occasionally spoke of it. There were seasons when the desire leftme, but it would come back again. Some years ago, when I was doingevangelistic work in Canada, the desire returned--this time to stay. Itgrew stronger and stronger until I decided to make the trip, which wasbegun on the eleventh of July, 1904. After traveling many thousands ofmiles, seeing numerous new and interesting sights, making many pleasantacquaintances, and having a variety of experiences, I returned to thehome of my father on the fourteenth day of December, having been absentfive months and three days, and having had a more extensive trip than Ihad at first thought of taking. There is a lesson in the foregoing thatI do not want overlooked. It is this: Whatever we earnestly desire isapt to be worked out in our lives. Deeds usually begin with thoughts. Ifthe thoughts are fostered and cultivated, the deeds will probably beperformed some time. It is, therefore, important that we exercise careas to the kind of thoughts we allow to remain in our hearts. "Keep thyheart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life" (Prov.iv. 23).On the way to New York, I stopped in Washington and saw some of theinteresting places of the National Capital. The Bureau of Engraving andPrinting, where about six hundred persons were engaged in printing papermoney and stamps, was visited. I also went out to the WashingtonMonument and climbed to the top of the winding stairs, although I mighthave gone up in the free elevator if I had preferred to ride. TheMedical Museum, National Museum, Treasury Building, the White House, theCapitol, and other points of interest received attention, and my shortstay in this city was very enjoyable.I spent a night in Philadelphia, after an absence of more than fouryears, and enjoyed a meeting with the church worshiping on Forty-sixthStreet. It was very pleasant to meet those I had known when I was therebefore, some of whom I had been instrumental in bringing to Christ. InNew York I made arrangements to sail for Glasgow on the S.S. Mongolian,of the Allan Line, which was to sail at eleven o'clock on the fourteenthof July, and the voyage was begun almost as promptly as a railway trainleaves the depot. We passed the Statue of Liberty a few minutes beforenoon, and then I prepared some mail to be sent back by the pilot whotook us down to the sea. The water was smooth almost all the way across,and we reached the desired haven on the eleventh day. I went back to myroom the first morning after breakfast and was lying in my berth when agentleman came along and told me I would have to get up, they weregoing to have _inspection_. I arose and found part of the crew scrubbingthe floor and others washing down a wall. Everything was being put ingood condition for the examination to be given by some of the officerswho passed through each day at about ten o'clock. The seamen knew theinspection was sure to come, and they knew the hour at which it wouldtake place, so they made ready for it. We know that there is a great"inspection" day appointed when God will judge the world, but we do notknow the exact time. It is, therefore, important to be ready always,that the day may not overtake us "as a thief in the night."Religious services were held on the ship each Lord's day, but I missedthe last meeting. On the first Sunday morning I arose as usual and atebreakfast. As there was no opportunity to meet with brethren and breakbread in memory of the Lord Jesus, I read the account of the giving ofthe Lord's Supper as recorded in Matthew, Mark, and John; also Paul'slanguage concerning the institution in the eleventh chapter of the firstCorinthian letter, and was thankful that my life had been spared untilanother beautiful resurrection morning. At half past ten o'clock I wentinto one of the dining rooms where two ministers were conducting ameeting. The order of the service, as nearly as I can give it, was asfollows: Responsive reading of the twenty-third and twenty-fourthPsalms; prayer; the hymn, "Onward, Christian Soldiers"; reading of thetwenty-ninth Psalm; prayer; the hymn, "Lead, Kindly Light"; an addresson "Knowing God"; prayer; the collection, taken while singing; and thebenediction. The ship furnished Bibles and hymn-books. A large copy ofthe Bible was placed upon a British flag at the head of one of thetables where the speaker stood, but he read from the American RevisedVersion of the Scriptures. The sermon was commenced by some remarks tothe effect that man is hard to please. Nothing earthly satisfies him,but Thomas expressed the correct idea when he said: "Show us the Fatherand it sufficeth us." The minister then went on to speak of God as "theGod of patience," "the God of comfort," "the God of hope," and "the Godof peace." It was, with some exceptions, a pleasing and upliftingaddress. There were about thirty persons in attendance, and thecollection was for the Sailors' Orphans' Home in Scotland. The followingis one verse of the closing hymn:  "A few more years shall roll,    A few more seasons come,  And we shall be with those that rest,    Asleep within the tomb;  Then, oh, my Lord, prepare    My soul for that great day,  Oh, wash me in thy precious blood    And take my sins away."Before the close of the day, I read the whole of Mark's record of thelife of our Savior and turned my Bible over to Gus, the steward. We hadfood served four times, as usual. The sea was smooth and the day passedquietly. A Catholic gentleman said something at breakfast about "sayinga few prayers" to himself, and I heard a woman, in speaking about goingto church, say she had beads and a prayer-book with her. Later in theday I saw her out on the deck with a novel, and what I supposed to bethe prayer-book, but she was reading the novel.Several of the passengers had reading matter with them. Some readnovels, but my Book was far better than any of these. It has a greaterAuthor, a wider range of history, more righteous laws, purer morals, andmore beautiful description than theirs. It contains a longer and betterlove story than theirs, and reveals a much grander Hero. The Bible bothmoralizes and Christianizes those who permit its holy influence to movethem to loving obedience of the Lord Jesus. It can fill its thoughtfulreader with holy hope and lead him into the realization of that hope. Itis a Book adapted to all men everywhere, and the more carefully it isread the greater the interest in it and the profit from it become. It isthe volume that teaches us how to live here that we may live hereafter,and in the dying hour no one will regret having been a diligent studentof its matchless pages of divine truth and wisdom.The last Lord's day of the voyage the ship reached Moville, Ireland,where a small vessel came out and took off the passengers forLondonderry. The tilled land, visible from the ship, reminded me of alarge garden. Some time that night we anchored in the harbor atGreenock, near the mouth of the River Clyde. About one o'clock thesecond steward came in, calling out: "Janes!" I answered from my berthand heard him call out: "Don Carlos Janes!" Again I answered and learnedthat he had some mail for me. I told him to hand it in, not rememberingthat the door was locked, but that made no difference, for he handed itin anyhow, but the locking arrangement on that door needed repairingafter he went away. I arose and examined the two pieces of mail, whichwere from friends, giving me directions as to where I should go when theship got up to Glasgow, twenty-two miles from the sea. There was but onecase of sea sickness reported on the whole voyage. There was one death,but the corpse was carried into port instead of being buried at sea.The home of Brother and Sister Henry Nelmes, which was my home while Istaid in Glasgow, is nicely located. Brother Nelmes and his wife areexcellent people, and treated me with much kindness. Glasgow is a largeand important city, with many interesting places in it. The MunicipalBuilding with its marble stairs, alabaster balustrade, onyx columns, andother ornamentation, is attractive on the inside, but the exteriorimpressed me more with the idea of stability than of beauty. The oldCathedral, which I visited twice, is in an excellent state ofpreservation, although founded in the eleventh century. There is anextensive burial ground adjoining the Cathedral, and one of theprominent monuments is at the grave of John Knox, the reformer. Theseimpressive words, written from memory, were spoken by the Regent at theburial of Knox, and have been carved upon his monument: "Here lieth hewho never feared the face of man, who was often threatened with dag anddagger, yet hath ended his days in peace and honor." Carlyle spoke ofhim as a man "fearing God, without any other fear."One day I visited the birth-place of Robert Burns, at Ayr, a point notfar from Glasgow. I not only saw the "lowly thatched cottage," but amonument to the poet, "Auld Kirk Alloway," the "brig o' Doon," and manyinteresting articles in the museum. When the street car came to astandstill, I had the old church and cemetery on my right hand, and themonument on my left hand, while a man was standing in the road, ahead ofus, blowing a cornet,--and just beyond was the new bridge over the Doon,a short distance below the old one, which is well preserved andprofusely decorated with the initials of many visitors. Along the bankof "bonny Doon" lies a little garden, on the corner of which issituated a house where liquor is sold, if I mistake not. It was beforethis house that I saw the musician already mentioned. As I came up fromthe old "brig o' Doon," I saw and heard a man playing a violin near themonument. When I went down the road toward the new bridge and lookedover into the garden, I saw a couple of persons executing a cake-walk,and an old man with one leg off was in the cemetery that surrounds theruined church, reciting selections from Burns. Such is the picture Ibeheld when I visited this Ayrshire monument, raised in memory of thesympathetic but unfortunate Scottish poet, whose "spark o' nature'sfire" has touched so many hearts that his birth-place has more visitorsper annum than Shakespeare's has.On the following day I had a pleasant boat-ride up Loch (Lake) Long,followed by a merry coach-ride across to the "bonny, bonny banks of LochLomond," which is celebrated in song and story. It is twenty-two milesin length and from three-quarters of a mile to five miles wide, and iscalled the "Queen of Scottish lakes." Ben Lomond, a mountain rising to aheight of more than three thousand feet, stands on the shore, and it issaid that Robert Bruce, the hero of Bannockburn, once hid himself in acave in this mountain. A pleasant boat-ride down the lake brought meback to Glasgow in time to attend a meeting of the brethren in CoplawStreet that night.Leaving my true friends who had so kindly entertained me in Glasgow, Iproceeded to Edinburgh, the city where Robert Burns came intoprominence. In the large Waverley Station a stranger, who knew of mycoming through word from Brother Ivie Campbell, of Kirkcaldy, stopped meand asked: "Is your name Don Carlos Janes?" It was another good friend,Brother J.W. Murray. He said he told some one he was looking for me, andwas told, in return, that he would not be able to find me. His answer tothis was that he had picked out a man before, and he might pick outanother one; and so he did, without any difficulty. After a little timespent in Waverley gardens, I ascended the Walter Scott Monument, whichis two hundred feet high. The winding stairway is rather narrow,especially at the top, and it is not well lighted. As I was coming downthe stairs, I met a lady and gentleman. The little woman was not at allenthusiastic over the experience she was having, and, without knowing ofmy presence, she was wondering what they would do if they were to meetany one. "Come on up and see," I said, and we passed without any specialdifficulty, but she said she didn't believe "two stout ones could" pass.As she went on up the winding way, she was heard expressing herself inthese words: "Oh, it is a place, isn't it? I don't like it." Thetourist finds many "places", and they are not all desirable. PrincessStreet, on which the monument is located, is the prettiest street that Ihave ever seen. One side is occupied by business houses and hotels, theother is a beautiful garden, where one may walk or sit down, surroundedby green grass and beautiful flowers.Edinburgh Castle is an old fortification on the summit of a lofty hilloverlooking the city. It is now used as barracks for soldiers, and iscapable of accommodating twelve hundred men. Queen Mary's room is asmall chamber, where her son, James the First of Scotland and the Sixthof England, was born. I was in the old castle in Glasgow where she spentthe night before the Battle of Langside, and later stood by her tomb inWestminster Abbey. Her history, a brief sketch of which is given here,is interesting and pathetic. "Mary Queen of Scots was born in LinlithgowPalace, 1542; fatherless at seven days old; became Queen December 8th,1542, and was crowned at Stirling, September 9th, 1543; carried toFrance, 1548; married to the Dauphin, 1558; became Queen of France,1559; a widow, 1560; returned to Scotland, 1561; married Lord Darnley,1565; her son (and successor), James VI., born at Edinburgh Castle,1566; Lord Darnley murdered, February, 1567; Mary married to the Earl ofBothwell, May, 1567, and was compelled to abdicate in favor of herinfant son. She escaped from Lochleven Castle, lost the Battle ofLangside, and fled to England, 1568. She was beheaded February 8th,1587, at Fotheringay Castle, in the forty-fifth year of her age, almostnineteen years of which she passed in captivity.  "Puir Mary was born and was cradled in tears,  Grief cam' wi' her birth, and grief grew wi' her years."In the crown-room are to be seen the regalia of Scotland, consisting ofthe crown, scepter, sword of state, a silver rod of office, and otherjewels, all enclosed in a glass case surrounded by iron work. St.Margaret's Chapel, seventeen feet long and eleven feet wide, standswithin the castle enclosure and is the oldest building in the city. Avery old cannon, called Mons Meg, was brought back to the castle throughthe efforts of Walter Scott, and is now on exhibition. I visited theHall of Statuary in the National Gallery, the Royal Blind Asylum, passedSt. Giles Cathedral, where John Knox preached, dined with BrotherMurray, and boarded the train for Kirkcaldy, where I as easily foundBrother Campbell at the station as Brother Murray had found me inEdinburgh.I had been in correspondence with Brother Campbell for some years, andour meeting was a pleasure, and my stay at Kirkcaldy was very enjoyable.We went up to St. Andrews, and visited the ruins of the old Cathedral,the University, a monument to certain martyrs, and the home of a sisterin Christ. But little of the Cathedral remains to be seen. It wasfounded in 1159, and was the most magnificent of Scottish churches. St.Rule's Tower, one hundred and ten feet high, still stands, and we had afine view from the top. The time to leave Kirkcaldy came too soon, but Imoved on toward Wigan, England, to attend the annual meeting of churchesof Christ. Brother Campbell accompanied me as far as Edinburgh, and Ithen proceeded to Melrose, where I stopped off and visited Abbotsford,the home of Sir Walter Scott. It is situated on the River Tweed, a shortdistance from Melrose, and was founded in 1811. By the expenditure of aconsiderable sum of money it was made to present such an appearance asto be called "a romance in stone and lime." Part of this large house isoccupied as a dwelling, but some of the rooms are kept open for thenumerous visitors who call from time to time. The young lady who wasguide the day I was at Abbotsford, first showed us Sir Walter's study.It is a small room, with book shelves from the floor to the ceiling, thedesk on which Scott wrote his novels sitting in the middle of the floor.A writing-box, made of wood taken from one of the ships of the SpanishArmada, sits on the desk, and the clothes worn by the great novelist ashort time before his death are kept under glass in a case by thewindow, while a cast of his face is to be seen in a small roomadjoining the study. We next passed into the library, which, with thebooks in the study, contains about twenty thousand volumes. In thearmory are numerous guns, pistols, swords, and other relics. There issome fine furniture in one of the rooms, and the walls are covered withpaper printed by hand in China nearly ninety years ago. Perhaps some whoread these lines will recall the sad story of Genivra, who hid herselfin an oaken chest in an attic, and perished there, being imprisoned bythe spring lock. This oaken chest was received at Abbotsford a shorttime before Scott's death, and is now on exhibition. Sir Walter, as theguide repeatedly called him, spent the last years of his life under theburden of a heavy debt, but instead of making use of the bankrupt law,he set to work heroically with his pen to clear up the indebtedness. Hewrote rapidly, and his books sold well, but he was one day compelled tolay down his pen before the task was done. The King of England gave hima trip to the Mediterranean, for the benefit of his health, but it wasof no avail. Sir Walter returned to his home on the bank of the Tweed,and died September twenty-first, 1832. In his last illness, this greatauthor, who had produced so many volumes that were being read then andare still being read, asked his son-in-law to read to him. Theson-in-law asked what book he should read, to which Sir Walter replied:"Book? There is but one Book! Read me the Bible." In Melrose I visitedthe ruins of the Abbey, and then went on to Wigan.After the annual meeting, I went to Birmingham and stayed a short while.From here I made a little journey to the birth-place of Shakespeare, atStratford-on-Avon, a small, quiet town, where, to the best of myrecollection, I saw neither street cars nor omnibuses. After being inseveral large cities, it was an agreeable change to spend a day in thisquiet place, where the greatest writer in the English tongue spent hisboyhood and the last days of his life on earth. The house where he wasborn was first visited. A fee of sixpence (about twelve cents) securesadmission, but another sixpence is required if the library and museumare visited. The house stands as it was in the poet's early days, with afew exceptions. Since that time, however, part of it has been used as ameat market and part as an inn. In 1847, the property was announced forsale, and it fell into the hands of persons who restored it as nearly aspossible to its original condition.It has two stories and an attic, with three gables in the roof facingthe street. At the left of the door by which the tourist is admitted, isa portion of the house where the valuable documents of the corporationare stored, while to the right are the rooms formerly used as the "Swanand Maidenhead Inn," now converted into a library and museum. Thewindows in the upstairs room where the poet was born are fully occupiedwith the autographs of visitors who have scratched their names there. Iwas told that the glass is now valuable simply as old glass, and ofcourse the autographs enhance the value. The names of Scott and Carlyleare pointed out by the attendant in charge. From a back window one canlook down into the garden, where, as far as possible, all the trees andflowers mentioned in Shakespeare's works have been planted. For someyears past the average number of visitors to this house has been seventhousand a year. The poet's grave is in Trinity Church, at Stratford,beneath a stone slab in the floor bearing these lines:  "Good friend, for Jesus' sake, forbear  To digg the dust enclosed here.  Blest be ye man y spares these stones,  And curst be he ty moves my bones."On the wall, just at hand, is a bust made from a cast taken after hisdeath. Near by is a stained-glass window with the inscription,"America's gift to Shakespeare's church," and not far away is a cardabove a collection-box with an inscription which informs "visitors fromU.S.A." that there is yet due on the window more than three hundreddollars. The original cost was about two thousand five hundred dollars.The Shakespeare Memorial is a small theater by the side of the Avon,with a library and picture gallery attached. The first stone was laid in1877, and the building was opened in 1879 with a performance of "MuchAdo About Nothing." The old school once attended by the poet stillstands, and is in use, as is also the cottage of Anne Hathaway, situateda short distance from Stratford. I returned to Birmingham, and soon wenton to Bristol and saw the orphans' homes founded by George Muller.These homes, capable of accommodating two thousand and fifty orphans,are beautifully situated on Ashley Downs. Brother William Kempster and Ivisited them together, and were shown through a portion of one of thefive large buildings by an elderly gentleman, neat, clean, and humble,who was sent down by the manager of the institution, a son-in-law of Mr.Muller, who died in 1898, at the advanced age of ninety-three years. Wesaw one of the dormitories, which was plainly furnished, but everythingwas neat and clean. We were also shown two dining-rooms, and thelibrary-room in which Mr. Muller conducted a prayer-meeting only a nightor two before his death. In this room we saw a fine, large picture ofthe deceased, and were told by the "helper" who was showing us aroundthat Mr. Muller was accustomed to saying: "Oh, I am such a happy man!"The expression on his face in this picture is quite in harmony with hiswords just quoted. One of his sayings was: "When anxiety begins, faithends; when faith begins, anxiety ends."Mr. Muller spent seventy years of his life in England and became sothoroughly Anglicized that he wished his name pronounced "Miller." Hewas the founder of the "Scriptural Knowledge Institution for Home andAbroad" and was a man of much more than ordinary faith. His work beganabout 1834, with the distribution of literature, and the orphan work, ifI mistake not, was begun two years later. "As the result of prayer toGod" more than five millions of dollars have been applied for thebenefit of the orphans. He never asked help of man, but made his wantsknown to God, and those who are now carrying on the work pursue the samecourse, but the collection-boxes put up where visitors can see themmight be considered by some as an invitation to give. The followingquotation from the founder of the orphanages will give some idea of thekind of man he was. "In carrying on this work simply through theinstrumentality of prayer and faith, without applying to any human beingfor help, my great desire was, that it might be seen that, now, in thenineteenth century, _God is still the Living God, and now, as well asthousands of years ago, he listens to the prayers of his children andhelps those who trust in him._ In all the forty-two countries throughwhich I traveled during the twenty-one years of my missionary service,numberless instances came before me of the benefit which this orphaninstitution has been, in this respect, not only in making men of theworld see the reality of the things of God, and by converting them, butespecially by leading the children of God more abundantly to givethemselves to prayer, and by strengthening their faith. _Far beyond whatI at first expected to accomplish_, the Lord has been pleased to giveme. But what I have _seen_ as the fruit of my labor in this way may notbe the thousandth part of what I _shall_ see when the Lord Jesus comesagain; as day by day, for sixty-one years, I have earnestly labored, inbelieving prayer, that God would be pleased, most abundantly, to blessthis service in the way I have stated."The objects of the Scriptural Knowledge Institution are set forth asfollows: "To assist day schools and Sunday-schools in which instructionis given upon scriptural principles," etc. By day schools conducted onscriptural principles, they mean "those in which the teachers arebelievers; where the way of salvation is pointed out, and in which noinstruction is given opposed to the principles of the Gospel." In theseschools the Scriptures are read daily by the children. In theSunday-schools the "teachers are believers, and the Holy Scripturesalone are the foundation of instruction." The second object of theInstitution is "to circulate the Holy Scriptures." In one year fourthousand three hundred and fifty Bibles were sold, and five hundred andtwenty-five were given away; seven thousand eight hundred and eighty-oneNew Testament were sold, and one thousand five hundred and seventy-fourwere given away; fifty-five copies of the Psalms were sold, andthirty-eight were given away; two thousand one hundred and sixty-threeportions of the Holy Scriptures were sold, and one hundred and sixty-twowere given away; and three thousand one hundred illustrated portions ofthe Scriptures were given away. There have been circulated through thismedium, since March, 1834, three hundred and eleven thousand two hundredand seventy-eight Bibles, and one million five hundred and seventhousand eight hundred and one copies of the New Testament. They keep instock almost four hundred sorts of Bibles, ranging in price from twelvecents each to more than six dollars a copy.Another object of the Institution is to aid in missionary efforts."During the past year one hundred and eighty laborers in the Word anddoctrine in various parts of the world have been assisted." The fourthobject is to circulate such publications as may be of benefit both tobelievers and unbelievers. In a single year one million six hundred andeleven thousand two hundred and sixty-six books and tracts weredistributed gratuitously. The fifth object is to board, clothe, andscientifically educate destitute orphans. Mr. Muller belonged to thatclass of religious people who call themselves Brethren, and are calledby others "Plymouth Brethren."After leaving Bristol, I went to London, the metropolis of the world.The first important place visited was Westminster Abbey, an old church,founded in the seventh century, rebuilt in 1049, and restored to itspresent form in the thirteenth century. Many eminent men and women areburied here. Chaucer, the first poet to find a resting place in theAbbey, was interred in 1400. The place where Major Andre is buried ismarked by a small piece of the pavement bearing his name. On the wallclose by is a monument to him. Here are the graves of Isaac Newton,Charles Dickens, Alfred Tennyson, Charles Darwin, and many others,including Kings and Queens of England for centuries. In the Poets'Corner are monuments to Coleridge, Southey, Shakespeare, Burns,Tennyson, Milton, Gray, Spencer, and others, and one bearing theinscription "O Rare Ben Jonson." There is also a bust of Longfellow, theonly foreigner accorded a memorial in the Abbey. The grave of DavidLivingstone, the African explorer and missionary, is covered with ablack stone of some kind, which forms a part of the floor or pavement,and contains an inscription in brass letters, of which the followingquotation is a part: "All I can add in my solitude is, may heaven'srich blessings come down on every one, American, English, or Turk, whowill help to heal this open sore of the world."Concerning this interesting old place which is visited by more thanfifty thousand Americans annually, Jeremy Taylor wrote: "Where our Kingsare crowned, their ancestors lie interred, and they must walk over theirgrandsires to take the crown. There is an acre sown with royal seed, thecopy of the greatest change, from rich to naked, from ceiled roofs toarched coffins, from living like gods to die like men. There the warlikeand the peaceful, the fortunate and the miserable, the beloved anddespised princes mingle their dust and pay down their symbol ofmortality, and tell all the world that when we die our ashes shall beequal to Kings, and our accounts easier, and our pains for our sinsshall be less." While walking about in the Abbey, I also found theselines from Walter Scott:  "Here, where the end of earthly things  Lays heroes, patriots, bards and kings;  Where stiff the hand and still the tongue  Of those who fought, and spoke, and sung;  Here, where the fretted aisles prolong  The distant notes of holy song,  As if some Angel spoke again  'All peace on earth, good will to men';  If ever from an English heart,  Here let prejudice depart."Bunhill Fields is an old cemetery where one hundred and twenty thousandburials have taken place. Here lie the ashes of Isaac Watts, the hymnwriter; of Daniel De Foe, author of "Robinson Crusoe," and of JohnBunyan, who in Bedford jail wrote "Pilgrim's Progress." The monumentsare all plain. The one at the grave of De Foe was purchased with thecontributions of seventeen hundred people, who responded to a call madeby some paper. On the top of Bunyan's tomb rests the figure of a man,perhaps a representation of him whose body was laid in the grave below.On one of the monuments in this cemetery are the following wordsconcerning the deceased: "In sixty-seven months she was tapped sixty-sixtimes. Had taken away two hundred and forty gallons of water withoutever repining at her case or ever fearing the operation."Just across the street from Bunhill Fields stands the house onceoccupied by John Wesley (now containing a museum) and a meeting-housewhich was built in Wesley's day. The old pulpit from which Mr. Wesleypreached is still in use, but it has been lowered somewhat. In front ofthe chapel is a statue of Wesley, and at the rear is his grave, andclose by is the last resting place of the remains of Adam Clarke, thecommentator.A trip to Greenwich was quite interesting. I visited the museum and sawmuch of interest, including the painted hall, the coat worn by Nelson atthe Battle of the Nile, and the clothing he wore when he was mortallywounded at Trafalgar. I went up the hill to the Observatory, and walkedthrough an open door to the grounds where a gentleman informed me thatvisitors are not admitted without a pass; but he kindly gave me someinformation and told me that I was standing on the prime meridian. Onthe outside of the enclosure are scales of linear measure up to oneyard, and a large clock.After the trip to Greenwich, I went over the London Bridge, passed thefire monument, and came back across the Thames by the Tower Bridge, apeculiar structure, having two levels in one span, so passengers can goup the stairs in one of the towers, cross the upper level, and go downthe other stairs when the lower level is opened for boats to pass up anddown the river. While in Scotland, I twice crossed the great ForthBridge, which is more than a mile and a half long and was erected at acost of above fifteen millions of dollars. There are ten spans in thesouth approach, eight in the north approach, and two central spans eachseventeen hundred feet long. The loftiest part of the structure is threehundred and sixty-one feet above high-water mark.The Albert Memorial is perhaps the finest monument seen on the wholetrip. The Victoria and Albert Museum contains the original Singersewing-machine, and a printing-press supposed to have been used byBenjamin Franklin, and many other interesting things. The NaturalHistory Museum also contains much to attract the visitor's attention.Here I saw the skeleton of a mastodon about ten feet tall and twentyfeet long; also the tusks of an extinct species of Indian elephant,which were nine feet and nine inches long. There is also an elephanttusk on exhibition ten feet long and weighing two hundred and eightypounds.Madam Tussaud's exhibition of wax figures and relics is both interestingand instructive, and well repays one for the time and expense of avisit. Several American Presidents are represented in life-size figures,along with Kings and others who have been prominent in the affairs ofmen. In the Napoleon room are three of the great warrior's carriages,the one used at Waterloo being in the number. London Tower is a seriesof strong buildings, which have in turn served as a fortress, a palace,and a prison. I saw the site of Anne Boleyn's execution, but that whichhad the most interest for me was the room containing the crown jewels.They are kept in a glass case ten or twelve feet in diameter, in asmall, circular room. Outside of the case there is an iron cagesurrounded by a network of wire. The King's crown is at the top of thecollection, which contains other crowns, scepters, swords, and differentcostly articles. This crown, which was first made in 1838 for QueenVictoria, was enlarged for Edward, the present King. It contains twothousand eight hundred and eighteen diamonds, two hundred andninety-seven pearls, and many other jewels. One of the scepters issupposed to contain a part of the cross of Christ, but the suppositionhad no weight with me. One of the attendants told me the value of thewhole collection was estimated at four million pounds, and that it wouldprobably bring five times that much if sold at auction. As the Englishpound is worth about four dollars and eighty-seven cents, this littleroom contains a vast treasure--worth upwards of a hundred milliondollars.I will only mention Nelson's monument in Trafalgar Square, theParliament Buildings, St. Paul's Cathedral, Kew Gardens, Hampton CourtPalace, and the Zoological Gardens. I also visited the Bank of England,which "stands on ground valued at two hundred and fifty dollars persquare foot. If the bank should ever find itself pressed for money, itcould sell its site for thirty-two million seven hundred and seventythousand dollars." It is a low building that is not noted for itsbeauty. If it were located in New York, probably one of the tallbuildings characteristic of that city would be erected on the site.The British Museum occupied my time for hours, and I shall not undertaketo give a catalogue of the things I saw there, but will mention a few ofthem. There are manuscripts of early writers in the English tongue,including a copy of Beowulf, the oldest poem in the language; autographworks of Daniel De Foe, Ben Jonson, and others; the original articles ofagreement between John Milton and Samuel Symmons relating to the sale ofthe copyright of "a poem entitled 'Paradise Lost.'" There was a smallstone inscribed in Phoenician, with the name of Nehemiah, the son ofMacaiah, and pieces of rock that were brought from the great temple ofDiana at Ephesus; a fragment of the Koran; objects illustrating Buddhismin India; books printed by William Caxton, who printed the first book inEnglish; and Greek vases dating back to 600 B.C. In the first verse ofthe twentieth chapter of Isaiah we have mention of "Sargon, the king ofAssyria." For centuries this was all the history the world had of thisking, who reigned more than seven hundred years before Christ. Withinrecent times his history has been dug up in making excavations in theeast, and I saw one of his inscribed bricks and two very large,human-headed, winged bulls from a doorway of his palace.The carvings from the palace of Sennacherib, tablets from the library ofAsur-Banipal, and brick of Ur-Gur, king of Ur about twenty-fivecenturies before Christ, attracted my attention, as did also thecolossal left arm of a statue of Thotmes III., which measures about ninefeet. The Rosetta stone, by which the Egyptian hieroglyphics weretranslated, and hundreds of other objects were seen. In the mummy-roomare embalmed bodies, skeletons, and coffins that were many centuriesold when Jesus came to earth, some of them bearing dates as early as2600 B.C., and in the case of a part of a body found in the thirdpyramid the date attached is 3633 B.C. Being weary, I sat down, and mynote book contains this entry: "1:45 P.M., August 20. Resting here inthe midst of mummies and sarcophagi thousands of years old."From the top of the Monument I took a bird's-eye view of the largest ofall earthly cities, or at least I looked as far as the smoky atmospherewould permit, and then returned to my stopping place at Twynholm. As Irode back on the top of an omnibus, the houses of one of the Rothschildfamily and the Duke of Wellington were pointed out. My sight-seeing inScotland and England was now at an end, and the journey so far had beenvery enjoyable and highly profitable. I packed up and went down toHarwich, on the English Channel, where I embarked on the Cambridge forAntwerp, in Belgium. In this chapter I have purposely omitted referenceto my association with the churches, as that will come up forconsideration in another chapter.CHAPTER II.CROSSING EUROPE.Immediately after my arrival in Antwerp I left for a short trip over theborder to Rosendaal, Holland, where I saw but little more thanbrick-houses, tile roofs, and wooden shoes. I then returned to Antwerp,and went on to Brussels, the capital of Belgium. The battlefield ofWaterloo is about nine and a half miles from Brussels, and I had anenjoyable trip to this notable place. The field is farming land, and nowunder cultivation. The chief object of interest is the Lion Mound, anartificial hill surmounted by the figure of a large lion. The mound isascended by about two hundred and twenty-three steps, and from itssummit one has a good view of the place where the great Napoleon met hisdefeat on the fifteenth of June, 1815. There is another monument on thefield, which, though quite small and not at all beautiful, contains animpressive inscription. It was raised in memory of Alexander Gordon, anaide to the Duke of Wellington, and has the following words carved onone side: "A disconsolate sister and five surviving brothers haveerected this simple memorial to the object of their tenderestaffection."From Brussels I went over to Aix-la-Chapelle, on the frontier ofGermany, where I spent but little time and saw nothing of any greatinterest to me. There was a fine statue of Wilhelm I., a crucifixionmonument, and, as I walked along the street, I saw an advertisement for"Henry Clay Habanna Cigarren," but not being a smoker, I can not saywhether they were good or not. In this city I had an amusing experiencebuying a German flag. I couldn't speak "Deutsch," and she couldn't speakEnglish, but we made the trade all right.My next point was Paris, the capital of the French Republic, and here Isaw many interesting objects. I first visited the church called theMadeleine. I also walked along the famous street _Champs Elysees,_visited the magnificent Arch of Triumph, erected to commemorate thevictories of Napoleon, and viewed the Eiffel Tower, which was completedin 1889 at a cost of a million dollars. It contains about seven thousandtons of metal, and the platform at the top is nine hundred andeighty-five feet high. The Tomb of Napoleon is in the Church of theInvalides, one of the finest places I had visited up to that time. Thespot where the Bastile stood is now marked by a lofty monument. Thegarden of the Tuileries, Napoleon's palace, is one of the pretty placesin Paris. Leaving this city in the morning, I journeyed all day througha beautiful farming country, and reached Pontarlier, in southern France,for the night.My travel in Switzerland, the oldest free state in the world, was veryenjoyable. As we were entering the little republic, in which I spent twodays, the train was running through a section of country that is notvery rough, when, all in a moment, it passed through a tunneloverlooking a beautiful valley, bounded by mountains on the oppositeside and presenting a very pleasing view. There were many otherbeautiful scenes as I journeyed along, sometimes climbing the ruggedmountain by a cog railway, and sometimes riding quietly over one of thebeautiful Swiss lakes. I spent a night at lovely Lucerne, on the Lake ofthe Four Cantons, the body of water on which William Tell figured longago. Lucerne is kept very clean, and presents a pleasing appearance tothe tourist.I could have gone to Fluelin by rail, but preferred to take a boat ridedown the lake, and it proved to be a pleasant and enjoyable trip. Thesnow could be seen lying on the tops of the mountains while the flowerswere blooming in the valleys below. Soon after leaving Fluelin, thetrain entered the St. Gothard Tunnel and did not reach daylight againfor seventeen minutes. This tunnel, at that time the longest in theworld, is a little more than nine miles in length. It is twenty-eightfeet wide, twenty-one feet high, lined throughout with masonry, and costeleven million four hundred thousand dollars. Since I was in Switzerlandthe Simplon Tunnel has been opened. It was begun more than six yearsago by the Swiss and Italian Governments, an immense force of handsbeing worked on each end of it. After laboring day and night for years,the two parties met on the twenty-fourth of February. This tunnel, whichis double, is more than twelve miles long and cost sixteen millions ofdollars.At Chiasso we did what is required at the boundary line of all thecountries visited; that is, stop and let the custom-house officialsinspect the baggage. I had nothing dutiable and was soon traveling onthrough Italy, toward Venice, where I spent some time riding on one ofthe little omnibus steamers that ply on its streets of water. But notall the Venetian streets are like this, for I walked on some that arepaved with good, hard sandstone. I was not moved by the beauty of theplace, and soon left for Pisa, passing a night in Florence on the way.The chief point of interest was the Leaning Tower, which has eightstories and is one hundred and eighty feet high. This structure,completed in the fourteenth century, seems to have commenced to leanwhen the third story was built. The top, which is reached by nearlythree hundred steps, is fourteen feet out of perpendicular. Five largebells are suspended in the tower, from the top of which one can have afine view of the walled city, with its Cathedral and Baptistery, thebeautiful surrounding country, and the mountains in the distance.The next point visited was Rome, old "Rome that sat on her seven hillsand from her throne of beauty ruled the world." One of the first thingsI saw when I came out of the depot was a monument bearing the letters"S.P.Q.R." (the Senate and the people of Rome) which are sometimes seenin pictures concerning the crucifixion of Christ. In London there arenumerous public water-closets; in France also there are public urinals,which are almost too public in some cases, but here in Rome the climaxis reached, for the urinals furnish only the least bit of privacy. Oneof them, near the railway station, is merely an indentation of perhapssix or eight inches in a straight wall right against the sidewalk, wheremen, women, and children are passing.By the aid of a guide-book and pictorial plan, I crossed the city fromthe gateway called "Porto del Popolo" to the "Porto S. Paolo," seeingthe street called the "Corso," or race course, Piazza Colonna, Fountainof Treves, Trajan's Forum, Roman Forum, Arch of Constantine, Pantheon,Colosseum, and the small Pyramid of Caius Cestus.The Porto del Popolo is the old gateway by which travelers entered thecity before the railroad was built. It is on the Flammian Way and issaid to have been built first in A.D. 402. Just inside the gate is aspace occupied by an Egyptian obelisk surrounded by four Egyptian lions.The Corso is almost a mile in length and extends from the gate justmentioned to the edge of the Capitoline Hill, where a great monument toVictor Emmanuel was being built. The Fountain of Treves is said to bethe most magnificent in Rome, and needs to be seen to be appreciated. Ithas three large figures, the one in the middle representing the Ocean,the one on the left, Fertility, and the one on the right, Health. Womenwho are disposed to dress fashionably at the expense of a deformed bodymight be profited by a study of this figure of Health. Trajan's Forum isan interesting little place, but it is a small show compared with theRoman Forum, which is much more extensive, and whose ruins are morevaried. The latter contains the temples of Vespasian, of Concordia, ofCastor and Pollux, and others. It also contains the famous Arch ofTitus, the Basilica of Constantine, the remains of great palaces, andother ruins. "Originally the Forum was a low valley among the hills, aconvenient place for the people to meet and barter." The Palatine Hillwas fortified by the first Romans, and the Sabines lived on other hills.These two races finally united, and the valley between the hills becamethe site of numerous temples and government buildings. Kings erectedtheir palaces in the Forum, and it became the center of Roman life. Butwhen Constantine built his capital at Constantinople, the greatness ofthe city declined, and it was sacked and plundered by enemies from thenorth. The Forum became a dumping ground for all kinds of rubbish untilit was almost hidden from view, and it was called by a name signifyingcow pasture. It has been partly excavated within the last century, andthe ruined temples and palaces have been brought to light, making itonce more a place of absorbing interest. I wandered around and over andunder and through these ruins for a considerable length of time, andwrote in my note book: "There is more here than I can comprehend."I was in a garden on top of one part of the ruins where flowers andtrees were growing, and then I went down through the mass of ruins by aflight of seventy-five stairs, which, the attendant said, was built byCaligula. I was then probably not more than half way to the bottom ofthis hill of ruins, which is honeycombed with corridors, stairways, androoms of various sizes. The following scrap of history concerningCaligula will probably be interesting: "At first he was lavishlygenerous and merciful, but he soon became mad, and his cruelty knew nobounds. He banished or murdered his relatives and many of his subjects.Victims were tortured and slain in his presence while dining, and heuttered the wish that all the Roman people had but one neck, that hemight strike it off at one blow. He built a bridge across the Bay ofBaiae, and planted trees upon it and built houses upon it that he mightsay he had crossed the sea on dry land. In the middle of the bridge hegave a banquet, and at the close had a great number of the guests throwninto the sea. He made his favorite horse a priest, then a consul, andalso declared himself a god, and had temples built in his honor." It issaid that Tiberius left the equivalent of one hundred and eighteenmillions of dollars, and that Caligula spent it in less than a year. Theattendant pointed out the corridor in which he said this wicked man wasassassinated.Near one of the entrances to the Forum stands the Arch of Titus, erectedto commemorate the victory of the Romans over the Jews at Jerusalem inA.D. 70. It is built of Parian marble and still contains awell-preserved figure of the golden candlestick of the Tabernacle carvedon one of its walls. There is a representation of the table of showbreadnear by, and some other carvings yet remain, indicating something of themanner in which the monument was originally ornamented.The Colosseum, commenced by Vespasian in A.D. 72 and finished by Tituseight years later, is a grand old ruin. It is an open theater sixhundred and twelve feet long, five hundred and fifteen feet wide, andone hundred and sixty-five feet high. This structure, capable of seatingeighty-seven thousand people, stands near the bounds of the Forum. It isthe largest of its kind, and is one of the best preserved and mostinteresting ruins in the world. When it was dedicated, the games lastedone hundred days, and five thousand wild beasts were slain. During thepersecution of the Christians it is said to have been the scene offearful barbarities.On the second day I entered the Pantheon, "the best preserved monumentof ancient Rome," built by Marcus Agrippa, and consecrated to Mars,Venus, and others. It was burned in the reign of Titus and rebuilt byHadrian, and in A.D. 608 Pope Boniface consecrated it as a church. Theinterior is shaped like a vast dome, and the only opening for light is around hole in the top. Raphael, "reckoned by almost universal opinion asthe greatest of painters," lies buried in the Pantheon behind one of thealtars. I went to Hadrian's Tomb, now the Castle of St. Angelo, and onto St. Peter's. Before this great church-building there is a large openspace containing an obelisk and two fountains, said to be the finest inthe city, with a semi-circular colonnade on two sides containing twohundred and eighty-four columns in four rows, and on the top of theentablature there are ninety-six large statues. There are large figureson the top of the church, representing Christ and the apostles. Theinterior is magnificent. There are three aisles five hundred andseventy-five feet long, and the middle one is eighty-two feet wide. Thebeautifully ornamented ceiling is one hundred and forty-two feet high.In this building, which was completed three hundred and fifty yearsafter it was begun, is the reputed tomb of the Apostle Peter, and manylarge marble statues. There are figures representing boy angels thatare as large as a full-grown man. The Vatican is not far from St.Peter's, and I went up to see the Museum, but got there just as it wasbeing closed for the day. I had a glimpse of the garden, and saw some ofthe Pope's carriages, which were fine indeed.One of the most interesting places that I visited about Rome was the oldunderground cemetery called the Catacombs of St. Calixtus. The visitorsgo down a stairway with a guide, who leads them about the chambers,which are but dimly lighted by the small candles they carry. Thepassages, cut in the earth or soft rock, vary both in width and height,and have been explored in modern times to the aggregate length of sixmiles. Some of the bodies were placed in small recesses in the walls,but I saw none there as I went through, but there were two in marblecoffins under glass. In one of the small chambers the party sang in someforeign language, probably Italian, and while I could not understandthem, I thought the music sounded well. The Circus of Maxentius, fifteenhundred feet long and two hundred and sixty feet wide, is near theCatacombs, as is also the tomb of Caecilla Metella, which is said tohave been erected more than nineteen hundred years ago. It is probablyas much as two miles from the city walls, and I walked on a little wayand could see other ruins still farther in the distance, but I turnedback toward the hotel, and some time after sundown found myself walkingalong the banks of the yellow Tiber in the old city. Two days ofsight-seeing had been well spent in and around the former capital of theworld, and I was ready to go on to Naples the next day.There is a saying, "See Naples and die," but I did not feel likeexpiring when I beheld it, although it is very beautifully located. Theruins of Pompeii, a few miles distant, had more interest for me thanNaples. I went out there on the tenth of September, which I recollect asa very hot day. Pompeii, a kind of a summer resort for the Romanaristocracy, was founded 600 B.C. and destroyed by an eruption of Mt.Vesuvius in A.D. 79. It was covered with ashes from the volcano, andpart of the population perished. The site of the city was lost, but wasfound after the lapse of centuries and the Italian Government began theexcavations in 1860. Some of the old stone-paved streets, showing theruts made by chariot wheels that ceased to roll centuries ago, have beenlaid bare. Portions of the houses are still standing, and the stonedrinking fountains along the streets are yet to be seen, as are also thestepping stones at the crossings, which are higher than the blocks usedin paving. Some of the walls still contain very clear paintings, some ofwhich are not at all commendable, and others are positively lewd. Onepicture represented a wild boar, a deer, a lion, a rabbit, some birds,and a female (almost nude) playing a harp. There was also a very clearpicture of a bird and some cherries. At one place in the ruins I saw awell-executed picture of a chained dog in mosaic work. It is remarkablehow well preserved some things are here. In the Museum are petrifiedbodies in the positions they occupied when sudden and unexpecteddestruction was poured upon them, well nigh two thousand years ago. Someappear to have died in great agony, but one has a peaceful position.Perhaps this victim was asleep when the death angel came. I saw thepetrified remains of a dog wearing a collar and lying on his back, and achild on its face. One of the men, who may have been a military officer,seemed to have a rusty sword at his side. There were skeletons, both ofhuman beings and of brutes, bronze vessels, and such articles as cakesand eggs from the kitchens of the old city.Mt. Vesuvius is a very famous volcano, standing four thousand feet high,and has wrought a great deal of destruction. In the eruption of 472, itis related that its ashes were carried to Constantinople; in 1066, thelava flowed down to the sea; in 1631, eighteen thousand lives were lost;and in 1794 a stream of lava more than a thousand feet wide and fifteenfeet high destroyed a town. From my hotel in Naples I had a fine view ofthe red light rising from the volcano the evening after I visitedPompeii.Leaving Naples, I went to Brindisi, where I took ship for Patras inGreece. A day was spent in crossing Italy, two nights and a day weretaken up with the voyage to Patras, and a good part of a day wasoccupied with the railroad trip from there to Athens, where the hotelmen made more ado over me than I was accustomed to, but I got throughall right and secured comfortable quarters at the New York Hotel, justacross the street from the Parliament Building. From the little balconyat my window I could look out at the Acropolis. The principal placesvisited the first day were the Stadium, Mars' Hill, and the Acropolis.Leaving the hotel and going through Constitution Square, up PhilhelleneStreet, past the Russian and English churches, I came to the Zappeion, amodern building put up for Olympic exhibitions. The Arch of Hadrian, apeculiar old structure, twenty-three feet wide and about fifty-six feethigh, stands near the Zappeion, and formerly marked the boundary betweenancient Athens and the more modern part of the city. Passing throughthis arch, I soon came to what remains of the temple of the OlympianJupiter, which was commenced long before the birth of Christ andfinished by Hadrian about A.D. 140. Originally this temple, after thatof Ephesus said to be the largest in the world, had three rows of eightcolumns each, on the eastern and western fronts, and a double row of onehundred columns on the northern and southern sides, and contained astatue of Jupiter, overlaid with gold and ivory. Its glory has longsince departed, and only fifteen of the columns are now standing. Alittle farther on is the Stadium, with an arena over five hundred andeighty feet long, and one hundred and nine feet wide. It was originallyconstructed by the orator Lycurgus, about three hundred and fifty yearsbefore Christ, but was being rebuilt when I was there. The seats are onboth sides and around the circular end of the arena, being made on theslope of the hill and covered with clean, white, Pentelic marble, makinga beautiful sight.On the way to Mars' Hill and the Acropolis I passed the monument ofLysicrates, the theater of Bacchus, and the Odeon. This first-mentionedtheater is said to have been "the cradle of dramatic art," themasterpieces of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and others having been renderedthere. The Odeon of Herod Atticus differed from other ancient theatersin that it was covered.Mars' Hill is a great, oval-shaped mass of rock which probably would notbe called a hill in America. The small end, which is the highest part ofit, lies next to the Acropolis, and its summit is reached by going up ashort flight of steps cut in the limestone, and well preserved,considering their age. The bluff on the opposite side from these stepsis perhaps thirty or forty feet high and very rugged. The rock slopestoward the wide end, which is only a few feet above the ground. Iestimate the greatest length of it to be about two hundred yards, andthe greatest width one hundred and fifty yards, but accuratemeasurements might show these figures to be considerably at fault. Ihave spoken of the hill as a rock, and such it is--a great mass of hardlimestone, whose irregular surface, almost devoid of soil, still showswhere patches of it were dressed down, perhaps for ancient altars oridols. The Areopagus was a court, which in Paul's time had jurisdictionin cases pertaining to religion.A vision called Paul into Macedonia, where Lydia was converted and Pauland Silas were imprisoned. In connection with their imprisonment, theconversion of the jailer of Philippi was brought about, after which thepreachers went to Thessalonica, from whence Paul and Silas were sent toBerea. Jews from Thessalonica came down to Berea and stirred up thepeople, and the brethren sent Paul away, but Silas and Timothy were leftbehind. "They that conducted Paul, brought him as far as Athens," andthen went back to Berea with a message to Silas and Timothy to come tohim "with all speed." "Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, hisspirit was provoked within him as he beheld the city full of idols."Being thus vexed, and having the gospel of Christ to preach, he reasonedwith the Jews and devout people in the synagogue and every day in themarketplace with those he met there. He came in contact withphilosophers of both the Epicurean and Stoic schools, and it was thesephilosophers who took him to the Areopagus, saying: "May we know whatthis new teaching is which is spoken by thee?"The Athenians of those days were a pleasure-loving set of idolaters whogave themselves up to telling and hearing new things. Besides the manyidols in the city, there were numerous temples and places of amusement.Within a few minutes' walk was the Stadium, capable of holding fiftythousand persons, and still nearer were the theater of Bacchus and theOdeon, capable of accommodating about thirty and six thousand peoplerespectively. On the Acropolis, probably within shouting distance, stoodsome heathen temples, one of them anciently containing a colossal statueof Athene Parthenos, said to have been not less than thirty-nine feethigh and covered with ivory and gold. In another direction and in plainsight stood, and still stands, the Theseum, a heathen temple at thattime. Take all this into consideration, with the fact that Paul hadalready been talking with the people on religious subjects, and hisgreat speech on Mars' Hill may be more impressive than ever before."Ye men of Athens, in all things I perceive that ye are very religious.For as I passed along and observed the objects of your worship, I foundalso an altar with this inscription, To an unknown God. What thereforeye worship in ignorance, this I set forth unto you. The God that madethe world and all things therein, he being Lord of heaven and earth,dwelleth not in temples made with hands; neither is he served by men'shands as though he needed anything, seeing he himself giveth to alllife, and breath, and all things; and he made of one every nation of mento dwell on all the face of the earth, having determined their appointedseasons, and the bounds of their habitation; that they should seek God,if haply they might feel after him and find him, though he is not farfrom each one of us; for in him we live, and move, and have our being;as certain even of your own poets have said, For we are also hisoffspring. Being then the offspring of God, we ought not to think theGodhead is like unto gold, or silver or stone, graven by art and deviceof man. The times of ignorance therefore God overlooked, but now hecommandeth men that they should all everywhere repent: inasmuch as hehath appointed a day in the which he will judge the world inrighteousness by the man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath givenassurance unto all men in that he hath raised him from the dead."The Acropolis is a great mass of stone near Mars' Hill, but rising muchhigher and having a wall around its crest. At one time, it is said, thepopulation of the city lived here, but later the city extended into thevalley below and the Acropolis became a fortress. About 400 B.C. thebuildings were destroyed by the Persians, and those now standing therein ruins were erected by Pericles. The entrance, which is difficult todescribe, is through a gateway and up marble stairs to the top, wherethere are large quantities of marble in columns, walls, and fragments.The two chief structures are the Parthenon and the Erectheum. TheParthenon is two hundred and eight feet long and one hundred and onefeet wide, having a height of sixty-six feet. It is so large andsituated in such a prominent place that it can be seen from all sides ofthe hill. In 1687 the Venetians while besieging Athens, threw a shellinto it and wrecked a portion of it, but part of the walls and some ofthe fluted columns, which are more than six feet in diameter, are yetstanding. This building is regarded as the most perfect model of Doricarchitecture in the world, and must have been very beautiful before itsclear white marble was discolored by the hand of time and broken topieces in cruel war. The Erectheum is a smaller temple, having a littleporch with a flat roof supported by six columns in the form of femalefigures.The Theseum, an old temple erected probably four hundred years beforeChrist, is the best preserved ruin of ancient Athens. It is a littleover a hundred feet long, forty-five feet wide, and is surrounded bycolumns nearly nineteen feet high. The Hill of the Pynx lies across theroad a short distance from the Theseum. At the lower side there is awall of large stone blocks and above this a little distance is anotherwall cut in the solid rock, in the middle of which is a cube cut in thenatural rock. This is probably the platform from which the speakeraddressed the multitude that could assemble on the shelf or benchbetween the two walls.Some of the principal modern buildings are the Hellenic Academy, theUniversity, Library, Royal Palace, Parliament Building, various churchbuildings, hotels, and business houses. The University, founded in 1837,is rather plain in style, but is ornamented on the front after themanner of the ancients, with a number of paintings, representingOratory, Mathematics, Geology, History, Philosophy, and other lines ofstudy. At one end is a picture of Paul, at the other end, arepresentation of Prometheus. The museum is small and by no means asgood as those to be seen in larger and wealthier countries. The Academy,finished in 1885, is near the University, and, although smaller than itsneighbor, is more beautiful. On the opposite side of the University afine new Library was being finished, and in the same street there is anew Roman Catholic church. I also saw two Greek Catholic church houses,but they did not seem to be so lavishly decorated within as the Romanchurch, but their high ceilings were both beautifully ornamented withsmall stars on a blue background. I entered a cemetery near one of thesechurches and enjoyed looking at the beautiful monuments and vaults. Itis a common thing to find a representation of the deceased on themonument. Some of these are full-length statues, others are carvingsrepresenting only the head. Lanterns, some of them lighted, are to beseen on many of the tombs. There are some fine specimens of thesculptor's art to be seen here, and the place will soon be even morebeautiful, for a great deal of work was being done. In fact, the wholecity of Athens seemed to be prosperous, from the amount of building thatwas being done.The Parliament Building is not at all grand. The Royal Palace is largerand considerably finer. At the head of a stairway is a good picture ofPrometheus tortured by an eagle. The visitor is shown the war room, alarge hall with war scenes painted on the walls and old flags standingin the corners. The throne room and reception room are both open tovisitors, as is also the ball room, which seemed to be more elaboratelyornamented than the throne room. There is a little park of orange andother trees before the palace, also a small fountain with a marblebasin. The highest point about the city is the Lycabettus, a steep rockrising nine hundred and nineteen feet above the level of the sea, andcrowned with a church building. From its summit a splendid view of thecity, the mountains, and the ocean may be obtained.I spent five days in this city, the date of whose founding does not seemto be known. Pericles was one of the great men in the earlier history ofthe old city. He made a sacred enclosure of the Acropolis and placedthere the masterpieces of Greece and other countries. The city is saidto have had a population of three hundred thousand in his day,two-thirds of them being slaves. The names of Socrates, Demosthenes, andLycurgus also belong to the list of great Athenians. In 1040 the Normanscaptured Piraeus, the seaport of Athens, and in 1455 the Turks,commanded by Omar, captured the city. The Acropolis was occupied by theTurks in 1826, but they surrendered the next year, and in 1839 Athensbecame the seat of government of the kingdom of Greece. With Athens, mysight-seeing on the continent ended. Other interesting and curioussights were seen besides those mentioned here. For instance, I hadnoticed a variety of fences. There were hedges, wire fences, fences ofstone slabs set side by side, frail fences made of the stalks of someplant, and embryo fences of cactus growing along the railroad. In Italy,I saw many white oxen, a red ox being an exception that seems seldom tooccur. I saw men hauling logs with oxen and a cart, the long timberbeing fastened beneath the axle of the cart and to the beam of the yoke.In Belgium, one may see horses worked three abreast and four tandem, andin Southern France they were shifting cars in one of the depots with ahorse, and in France I also saw a man plowing with an ox and a horsehitched together. Now the time had come to enter the Turkish Empire, andowing to what I had previously heard of the Turk, I did not look forwardto it with pleasure.CHAPTER III.ASIA MINOR AND SYRIA.The Greek ship _Alexandros_ left the harbor of Piraeus in the forenoonof Lord's day, September eighteenth, and anchored outside the breakwaterat Smyrna, in Asia Minor, the next morning. The landing in Turkishterritory was easily accomplished, and I was soon beyond the customhouse, where my baggage and passport were examined, and settled down atthe "Hotel d'Egypte," on the water front. This was the first time thepassport had been called for on the journey. The population of Smyrna isa mixture of Turks, Greeks, Jews, Armenians, Italians, Americans, andNegroes. The English Government probably has a good sizedrepresentation, as it maintains its own postoffice. The city itself isthe main sight. The only ruins I saw were those of an old castle on thehill back of the city. The reputed tomb of Polycarp is over this hillfrom Smyrna, between two cypress trees, but I do not know that I foundthe correct location. Near the place that I supposed to be the tomb isan aqueduct, a portion of it built of stone and a portion of metal. As Iwent on out in the country I entered a vineyard to get some grapes, notknowing how I would be received by the woman I saw there; but she wasvery kind-hearted, and when I made signs for some of the grapes, she atonce pulled off some clusters and gave them to me. She also gave me achair and brought some fresh water. More grapes were gathered and put inthis cold water, so I had a fine time eating the fruit as I sat there inthe shade watching a little boy playing about; but I could not conversewith either of them on account of not knowing their language. On the wayback to the city I stopped at the railway station to make inquiriesabout a trip to Ephesus.Most of the streets in Smyrna are narrow and crooked, but there is onerunning along the water front that is rather attractive. On one side isthe water, with the numerous vessels that are to be seen in thissplendid harbor, and on the other side is a row of residences, hotels,and other buildings. The people turn out in great numbers at night andwalk along this street, sometimes sitting down at the little tables thatare set in the open air before places where different kinds of drinksare dispensed. Here they consume their drinks and watch the freeperformances that are given on an open stage adjoining the street andthe grounds where they are seated. Perhaps the most peculiar thing aboutit all is the quiet and orderly behavior of this great crowd of people.While in this city I had occasion to go to the "Banque ImperialeOttoman," and learned that it was open in the forenoon and afternoon,but closed awhile in the middle of the day. I saw a street barber plyinghis trade here one day. A vessel of water was put up under thecustomer's chin, and held there by keeping the chin down. The barberhad his strop fastened to himself, and not to the chair or a wall, as wesee it at home. Great quantities of oats were being brought down fromthe interior on camels. The sacks were let down on the pavement, andlaborers were busy carrying them away. A poor carrier would walk up to asack of grain and drop forward on his hands, with his head between them,and reaching down almost or altogether to the pavement. The sack ofgrain was then pulled over on his back, and he arose and carried itaway. Some poor natives were busy sweeping the street and gathering upthe grain that lost out of the sacks. There seems to be a large amountof trade carried on at this port. Several ships were in the harbor, andhundreds of camels were bringing in the grain. There are now manymosques and minarets in Smyrna, where there was once a church of God.(Revelation 2:8-11.)On Wednesday, September twenty-first, I boarded a train on the OttomanRailway for Ayassalouk, the nearest station to the ruins of Ephesus, aonce magnificent city, "now an utter desolation, haunted by wildbeasts." We left Smyrna at seven o'clock, and reached Ayassalouk, fiftymiles distant, at half-past nine. The cars on this railway were enteredfrom to side, as on European railroads, but this time the doors werelocked after the passengers were in their compartments. Ayassalouk is apoor little village, with only a few good houses and a small population.At the back of the station are some old stone piers, that seem to havesupported arches at an earlier date. On the top of the hill, as on manyhilltops in this country, are the remains of an old castle. Below thecastle are the ruins of what I supposed to be St. John's Church, builtlargely of marble, and once used as a mosque, but now inhabited by alarge flock of martins.I visited the site of Ephesus without the services of a guide, walkingalong the road which passes at some distance on the right. I continuedmy walk beyond the ruins, seeing some men plowing, and others caring forflocks of goats, which are very numerous in the East. When I turned backfrom the road, I passed a well, obtaining a drink by means of the ropeand bucket that were there, and then I climbed a hill to the remains ofa strong stone building of four rooms. The thick walls are several feethigh, but all the upper part of the structure has been thrown down, and,strange to say, a good portion of the fallen rocks are in three of therooms, which are almost filled. It is supposed that Paul made a journeyafter the close of his history in the book of Acts; that he passedthrough Troas, where he left a cloak and some books (2 Tim. 4:13); wasarrested there, and probably sent to Ephesus for trial before theproconsul. Tradition has it that this ruined stone building is the placewhere he was lodged, and it is called St. Paul's Prison. From the top ofits walls I could look away to the ruins of the city proper, about amile distant, the theater being the most conspicuous object.There are several attractions in Ephesus, where there was once a churchof God--one of the "seven churches in Asia"--but the theater was thechief point of interest to me. It was cut out of the side of the hill,and its marble seats rested on the sloping sides of the excavation,while a building of some kind, a portion of which yet remains, was builtacross the open side at the front. I entered the inclosure, the outlinesof which are still plainly discernible, and sat down on one of the oldseats and ate my noonday meal. As I sat there, I thought of the scenethat would greet my eyes if the centuries that have intervened sincePaul was in Ephesus could be turned back. I thought I might see theseats filled with people looking down upon the apostle as he fought forhis life; and while there I read his question: "If after the manner ofmen I fought with beasts at Ephesus, what doth it profit me" if the deadare not raised up? (I Cor. 15:32). I also read the letter which Jesuscaused the aged Apostle John to write to the church at this place (Rev.2:1-7), and Paul's epistle to the congregation that once existed inthis idolatrous city of wealth and splendor. As I was leaving this spot,where I was so deeply impressed with thoughts of the great apostle tothe Gentiles, I stopped and turned back to take a final look, when Ithought of his language to Timothy, recorded in the first eight versesof the second epistle, and then I turned and read it. Perhaps I was notso deeply impressed at any other point on the whole journey as I washere. The grand old hero, who dared to enter the city which was"temple-keeper of the great Diana," this temple being one of the "SevenWonders of the World," and boldly preach the gospel of Christ,realizing that the time of his departure was at hand, wrote: "I havefought the good fight, I have finished the course, I have kept thefaith: Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness,which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give to me at that day; andnot to me only, but also to all them that have loved his appearing."Meditating on the noble and lofty sentiment the apostle here expressesin connection with his solemn charge to the young evangelist, I havefound my sentiments well expressed in Balaam's parable, where he says:"Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his"(Num. 23:10).Near the front of the theater, on the left as one comes out, is quite aspace, which seems to have been excavated recently, and farther to theleft excavations were being made when I was there. An ancient lamp, afluted column, and a headless statue were among the articles taken out.The workmen were resting when I viewed this part of the ruins, and anold colored man gave me a drink of water. Beginning a little to theright of the theater, and extending for perhaps fifteen hundred or twothousand feet, is a marble-paved street, along which are strewn numerousbases, columns, and capitals, which once ornamented this portion of thegreat city; and to the right of this are the remains of some mightystructure of stone and brick. In some places, where the paving blockshave been taken up, a water course beneath is disclosed. While walkingaround in the ruins, I saw a fine marble sarcophagus, or coffin,ornamented with carvings of bulls' heads and heavy festoons of oakleaves.J.S. Wood, an Englishman, worked parts of eleven years, from 1863 to1874, in making excavations at Ephesus. Upwards of eighty thousanddollars were spent, about fifty-five thousand being used in a successfuleffort to find the remains of the Temple of Diana. I followed thedirections of my guide-book, but may not have found the exact spot, asBrother McGarvey, who visited the place in 1879, speaks of theexcavations being twenty feet deep. "Down in this pit," he says, "liethe broken columns of white marble and the foundation walls of thegrandest temple ever erected on earth"; but I saw nothing like this.When Paul had passed through Galatia and Phrygia, "establishing all thedisciples," "having passed through the upper country," he came toEphesus, and found "about twelve men" who had been baptized "into John'sbaptism," whom Paul baptized "into the name of the Lord Jesus." He thenentered into the Jewish meeting place and reasoned boldly "concerningthe kingdom of God." Some of the hardened and disobedient spoke "evil ofthe Way," so Paul withdrew from them and reasoned "daily in the schoolof Tyrannus. And this continued for the space of two years; so that allthey that dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews andGreeks." The Lord wrought special miracles by Paul, so that the sickwere healed when handkerchiefs or aprons were borne from him to them.Here some of the strolling Jews "took upon them to name over them thathad the evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, I adjure you byJesus, whom Paul preacheth." When two of the sons of Sceva undertook todo this, the man possessed of the evil spirit "leaped on them andmastered both of them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled outof the house naked and wounded." There were stirring times in Ephesus inthose days. Fear fell upon the people, "and the name of the Lord Jesuswas magnified." Many of the believers "came confessing, and declaringtheir deeds. And not a few of them that practiced magical arts broughttheir books together and burned them in the sight of all; and theycounted the price of them, and found it fifty thousand pieces ofsilver." "So mightily grew the word of the Lord and prevailed.""And about that time there arose no small stir concerning the Way. For acertain man named Demetrius, a silversmith who made silver shrines ofDiana, brought no little business unto the craftsmen; whom he gatheredtogether, with the workmen of like occupation, and said, Sirs, ye knowthat by this business we have our wealth. And ye see and hear that notalone at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia, this Paul hathpersuaded and turned away much people, saying that they are no gods thatare made with hands: and not only is there danger that our trade comeinto disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana bemade of no account, and that she should even be deposed from hermagnificence, whom all Asia and the world worshipeth. And when theyheard this they were filled with wrath, and cried out, saying, Great isDiana of the Ephesians. And the city was filled with the confusion: andthey rushed with one accord into the theater, having seized Gaius andAristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel. And whenPaul was minded to enter in unto the people, the disciples suffered himnot. And certain also of the Asiarchs, being his friends, sent unto himand besought him not to adventure himself into the theater. Sometherefore cried one thing, and some another: for the assembly was inconfusion; and the more part knew not wherefore they were come together.And they brought Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews putting himforward. And Alexander beckoned with the hand and would have made adefense unto the people. But when they perceived that he was a Jew, allwith one voice about the space of two hours cried out, Great is Diana ofthe Ephesians. And when the town clerk had quieted the multitude, hesaith, Ye men of Ephesus, what man is there who knoweth not that thecity of the Ephesians is temple-keeper of the great Diana, and of theimage which fell down from Jupiter? Seeing then that these things cannot be gainsaid, ye ought to be quiet, and to do nothing rash. For yehave brought hither these men, who are neither robbers of temples norblasphemers of our goddess. If therefore Demetrius, and the craftsmenthat are with him, have a matter against any man, the courts are open,and there are proconsuls: let them accuse one another. But if ye seekanything about other matters, it shall be settled in the regularassembly. For indeed we are in danger to be accused concerning thisday's riot, there being no cause for it: and as touching it we shall notbe able to give an account of this concourse. And when he had thusspoken, he dismissed the assembly" (Acts 19:23-41).As I was leaving the ruins, I stopped, sat down in sight of the spotwhere I supposed the temple stood, and read the speech of Demetrius, andthought his fears were well founded. Their trade has come intodisrepute, "the temple of the great goddess" has been "made of noaccount," and "she whom Asia and all the world" worshiped has been"deposed from her magnificence." Portions of the temple are now onexhibition in the British Museum, in London, and portions have beencarried to different other cities to adorn buildings inferior to the onein which they were originally used. "From the temple to the moresouthern of the two eastern gates of the city," says McGarvey, "aretraces of a paved street nearly a mile in length, along the side ofwhich was a continuous colonnade, with the marble coffins of the city'sillustrious dead occupying the spaces between the columns. Theprocessions of worshipers, as they marched out of the city to thetemple, passed by this row of coffins, the inscriptions on which wereconstantly proclaiming the noble deeds of the mighty dead." The canaland artificial harbor, which enabled the ships of the world to reach thegates of the city, have disappeared under the weight of the hand oftime. In some places the ground is literally covered with small stones,and even in the theater, weeds, grass and bushes grow undisturbed. Howcomplete the desolation!Before leaving Ayassalouk on the afternoon train, I bought some grapesof a man who weighed them to me with a pair of balances, putting thefruit on one pan and a stone on the other; but I didn't object to hisscales, for he gave me a good supply, and I went back and got some more.I also bought some bread to eat with the grapes, and one of the numerouspriests of these Eastern countries gave me some other fruit on thetrain. I was abroad in the fruit season, and I enjoyed it very much. Ihad several kinds, including the orange, lemon, grapes, pomegranates,figs, olives, and dates. Perhaps I had nothing finer than the large,sweet grapes of Greece. The next day after the trip to Ephesus, Iboarded the _Princess Eugenia_, a Russian ship, for Beyrout, in Syria.Soon after leaving Smyrna the ship stopped at a port of disinfection.The small boats were lowered, and the third-class passengers werecarried to the disinfecting establishment, where their clothes wereheated in a steam oven, while they received a warm shower bath withoutexpense to themselves. A nicely dressed young German shook his headafterwards, as though he did not like such treatment; but it was notspecially disagreeable, and there was no use to complain.That evening, the twenty-second of September, we sailed into a harbor onthe island of Chios, the birth-place of the philosopher Pythagoras. Itis an island twenty-seven miles long, lying near the mainland. The nextmorning we passed Cos and Rhodes. On this last mentioned island oncestood the famous Colossus, which was thrown down by an earthquake in 224B.C. The island of Patmos, to which John was banished, and upon which hewrote the Revelation, was passed in the night before we reached Cos. Itis a rocky, barren patch of land, about twenty miles in circumference,lying twenty-four miles from the coast of Asia Minor. On thetwenty-fourth the _Princess Eugenia_ passed the southwestern end of theisland of Cyprus. In response to a question, one of the seamen answeredme: "Yes, that's Kiprus." I was sailing over the same waters Paulcrossed on his third missionary tour on the way from Assos to Tyre. He"came over against Chios," "came with a straight course unto Cos, andthe next day unto Rhodes," and when he "had come in sight of Cyprus,leaving it on the left hand (he) sailed unto Syria and landed at Tyre"(Acts 20:15 and 21:1-3).On the evening of Lord's day, September twenty-fifth, the ship passedTripoli, on the Syrian coast, and dropped down to Beyrout, where Istopped at the "Hotel Mont Sion," with the waves of the Mediterraneanwashing against the foundation walls. At seven o'clock the next morningI boarded the train for Damascus, ninety-one miles distant, and we weresoon climbing the western slope of the Lebanon Mountains by a cograilway. When we were part way up, the engine was taken back and hitchedto the rear end of the train. After we were hauled along that wayawhile, it was changed back to the front end again. In these mountainsare vineyards and groves of figs, olives, and mulberry trees, but mostof the ground was dry and brown, as I had seen it in Southern Italy,Greece, and Asia Minor. Beyond the mountains is a beautiful plain, whichwe entered about noon, and when it was crossed, we came to theAnti-Lebanon Mountains, and reached the old city in the evening.Damascus, with its mixed population of Moslems, Greeks, Syrians,Armenians, Jews, and others, is the largest city in Syria, and it hasprobably been continuously inhabited longer than any other city onearth. Away back in the fourteenth chapter of Genesis we read ofAbraham's victory over the enemies who had taken Lot away, whom Abrahampursued "unto Hobah, which is on the left of Damascus," and in the nextchapter we read of "Eliezer of Damascus," who Abraham thought would bethe possessor of his house. Rezon "reigned in Damascus, and he was anadversary to Israel all the days of Solomon" (1 Kings 11:23-25). Elishawent to Damascus when Ben-Hadad was sick (2 Kings 8:7-15); Jeroboamrecovered the city, which had belonged to Judah (2 Kings 14:28); andJeremiah prophesied of the city (Jeremiah 49:23-27). It was probably thehome of Naaman, the Syrian leper, and here Paul was baptized intoChrist.For a long time the Arabs have considered Damascus as "an earthlyreflection of Paradise," but an American or European would consider aplace no better than it is as being far from the Paradise of Divinemaking. But it is not entirely without reason that these people havesuch a lofty conception of the old city. The Koran describes Paradise asa place of trees and streams of water, and Damascus is briefly describedin those words. There are many public drinking fountains in the city,and owing to the abundance of water, there are many trees. The riverAbana, one of the "rivers of Damascus" (2 Kings 5:12), flows through thecity, but the most of its water is diverted by artificial channels. Ihad some difficulty in finding the American Consular Agent, and it is nowonder, for the place is not the most prominent in Damascus by a gooddeal, and the escutcheon marking it as the place where the AmericanGovernment is represented is not on the street, but over a door in akind of porch. The Agent was not in, so I retraced my steps to theFrench consulate, which is near by. I was kindly received by a gentlemanwho could speak English, and after we had had a good, cool drink oflemonade, he went with me to the "Hotel d'Astre d'Orient," in the"street which is called Straight." The next morning I found the AmericanAgent in his office. Then I went to the postoffice, and after beingtaken upstairs and brought back downstairs, I was led up to a littlecase on the wall, which was unlocked in order that I might look throughthe bunch of letters it contained addressed in English, and I was madeglad by receiving an epistle from the little woman who has since takenmy name upon her for life. After reading my letter, I went out andwalked up the mountain side far enough to get a bird's-eye view of thecity, and it was a fine sight the rich growth of green trees presentedin contrast with the brown earth all around. Returning to the city, Iwalked about the streets, devoting some of my time to the bazaars, orlittle stores, in which a great variety of goods are offered for sale. Ialso saw several kinds of work, such as weaving, wood-turning andblacksmithing, being carried on. The lathes used for turning wood arevery simple, and are operated by a bow held in the workman's right hand,while the chisel is held in his left hand and steadied by the toes onone or the other of his feet. It is a rather slow process, but they canturn out good work. One gentleman, who was running a lathe of this kind,motioned for me to come up and sit by his side on a low stool. Iaccepted his invitation, and he at once offered me a cigarette, which Icould not accept. A little later he called for a small cup of coffee,which I also declined, but he took no offense. "The street which iscalled Straight" is not as straight as might be supposed from its name,but there is probably enough difference between its course and that ofothers to justify the name.When Paul was stricken with blindness on his way here (Acts 9:1-30), hewas directed to enter the city, where he would be told all things thatwere appointed for him to do. He obeyed the voice from heaven, andreached the house of Judas in Straight Street. When I reached thetraditional site of the house of Ananias, in the eastern part of thecity, near the gate at the end of Straight Street, I found agood-natured woman sitting on the pavement just inside the door openingfrom the street to what would be called a yard in America. The "house"has been converted into a small church, belonging to the Catholics, andit is entirely below the surface. I went down the stairs, and found asmall chamber with an arched ceiling and two altars. I also went out andvisited the old gateway at the end of the street. The masonry is aboutthirteen feet thick, and it may be that here Paul, deprived of hissight, and earnestly desiring to do the will of the Lord, entered thecity so long ago. I then viewed a section of the wall from the outside.The lower part is ancient, but the upper part is modern, and the portionthat I saw was in a dilapidated condition. "In Damascus," Paul wrote tothe Corinthians, "the governor, under Aretas the king, guarded the cityof the Damascenes in order to take me: and through a window was I letdown in a basket by the wall, and escaped his hands" (2 Cor. 11:32,33).In some places there are houses so built in connection with the wallthat it would not be a very difficult thing to lower a man from one ofthe windows to the ground outside the city.Mention has already been made of the Arab's opinion of Damascus, and nowI wish to tell how it appeared through my spectacles. The view from thedistance is very pleasing, but when one comes inside the wall and beginsto walk about the streets, the scene changes. The outside of thebuildings is not beautiful. The streets are narrow, crooked, and usuallyvery dirty; in some cases they are filthy. It seems that all kinds ofrubbish are thrown into the streets, and the dogs are scavengers.Perhaps no other city has so many dogs. At one place up along the Abana,now called the Barada, I counted twenty-three of these animals, and afew steps brought me in sight of five more; but there is some filth thateven Damascus dogs will not clean up. Some of the streets are roughlypaved with stone, but in the best business portion of the city that Isaw there was no pavement and no sidewalk--it was all street from onewall to the other. I saw a man sprinkling one of the streets with watercarried in the skin of some animal, perhaps a goat. When I came out ofthe postoffice, a camel was lying on the pavement, and in another partof the city I saw a soldier riding his horse on the sidewalk. Down in"the street which is called Straight" a full-grown man was going alongas naked as when he was born. Perhaps he was insane, but we do not evenallow insane men to walk the streets that way in this country. Carriagesare used for conveying passengers, but freight is usually moved on thebacks of horses, camels, donkeys, or men. Some wagons and carts are tobe seen, but they are not numerous. It is remarkable what loads arepiled upon the donkeys, probably the commonest beasts of burden inDamascus. Sometimes the poor little creatures are almost hidden fromview by the heavy burdens they are required to bear, which may consistof grapes to be sold, or rubbish to be carried out of the city.Sometimes they are ridden by as many as three people at once. If thegospel were to get a firm hold on these people, the donkeys would farebetter.About 333 B.C., Damascus came under the control of Alexander the Great.Antiochus Dionysius reigned there three years, but was succeeded byAretas of Arabia in 85 B.C. Under Trajan it became a Roman provincialcity. The Mongols took it in 1260, and the Tartars plundered it in 1300.An enemy marched against it in 1399, but the citizens purchased immunityfrom plunder by paying a "sum of a million pieces of gold." In 1516,when Selim, the Turkish Sultan, marched in, it became one of theprovincial capitals of the Turkish Empire, and so continues. There was avery serious massacre here in 1860. All the consulates, except theBritish and Prussian, were burned, and the entire Christian quarter wasturned into ruins. In the two consulates that were spared many liveswere preserved, but it is said that "no fewer than six thousandunoffending Christians ... were thus murdered in Damascus alone," and"the whole number of the Christians who perished in these days of terroris estimated at fourteen thousand." A number of the leaders wereafterward beheaded, and a French force, numbering ten thousand, was sentinto the country. The Mohammedans have about two hundred mosques andcolleges in this city, which was once far advanced in civilization.I left Damascus and returned toward the coast to Rayak, where I took thetrain on a branch line for Baalbec, the Syrian city of the sun, a placehaving no Biblical history, but being of interest on account of thegreat stones to be seen there. No record has been preserved as to theorigin of the city, but coins of the first century of the Christian erashow that it was then a Roman colony. It is situated in the valley ofthe Litany, at an elevation of two thousand eight hundred and forty feetabove the sea. The chief ruins are in a low part of the valley by theside of the present town, and are surrounded by gardens. Within theinclosing wall are the remains of the temple of Jupiter and the templeof the sun. The hand of time and the hand of man have each had a sharein despoiling these ruins, but they still speak with eloquence of theirgrandeur at an earlier date. The wall is so low on the north that it issupposed to have been left unfinished. Here are nine stones, each saidto be thirty feet long, ten feet thick and thirteen feet high, and theyare closely joined together without the use of mortar. Just around thecorner are three others still larger, and built in the wall about twentyfeet above the foundation. Their lengths are given as follows:sixty-three feet; sixty-three feet and eight inches; and sixty-fourfeet. They are thirteen feet high and about ten feet thick. Some may beinterested in knowing how such large building blocks were moved.McGarvey says: "It is explained by the carved slabs found in the templeof Nineveh, on which are sculptured representations of the entireprocess. The great rock was placed on trucks by means of levers, a largenumber of strong ropes were tied to the truck, a smooth track of heavytimbers was laid, and men in sufficient number to move the mass werehitched to the ropes." Some of the smaller stones have holes cut inthem, as if for bars, levers, or something of that kind, but the facesof these big blocks are smooth. "A man must visit the spot, ride roundthe exterior, walk among the ruins, sit down here and there to gaze uponits more impressive features, see the whole by sunlight, by twilight,and by moonlight, and allow his mind leisurely to rebuild it andre-people it, ere he can comprehend it."--_McGarvey_.There were some of the native girls out by the ruins who tried to sellme some of their needle work, but I was not disposed to buy. One of themattempted to make a sale by saying something like this: "You're verynice, Mister; please buy one." I told her there was a little girl inAmerica who thought that, too, and went on. There is a rock in thequarry at Baalbec that is larger than any of those in the ruins,although it was never entirely cut out, the length of which issixty-eight feet, and the width varies from about thirteen feet at oneend to seventeen feet at the other. It is about fourteen feet thick, andthe estimated weight is fifteen hundred tons. Some of the stones in aruined building, once a tomb, standing on the hill above the town, giveforth a metallic ring when struck. Farther on is a small cemetery, inwhich some of the headstones and footstones are as much as nine feetapart. If the people buried there were that long, surely "there weregiants in the land in those days." I went down on the opposite side ofthe hill from the tomb and entered a vineyard, where an old man treatedme with kindness and respect. The modern town is poorly built of smallstones and mud, but there are some good buildings of dressed stone,among which I may mention the British Syrian School and the Grand NewHotel. I staid at another hotel, where I found one of those pre-occupiedbeds which travelers in the East so often find. About midnight, after Ihad killed several of the little pests, I got up and shaved bycandle-light, for I wasn't sleepy, and there was no use to waste thetime.Leaving Baalbec, I went down to Rayak and on to Beyrout again. This oldcity is said to have been entirely destroyed in the second centurybefore Christ. It was once a Roman possession, and gladiatorial combatswere held there by Titus after the destruction of Jerusalem. Anearthquake destroyed it in 529, and the British bombarded it in 1840.The population is a great mixture of Turks, Orthodox Greeks, UnitedGreeks, Jews, Latins, Maronites, Protestants, Syrians, Armenians,Druses, and others. A great many ships call here, as this is the mostimportant commercial city in Syria. The numerous exports consist ofsilk, olive oil, cotton, raisins, licorice, figs, soap, sponges, cattle,and goats. Timber, coffee, rice, and manufactured goods are imported. Atone time Arabic was the commonest language, and Italian came next, butnow, while Arabic holds first place, French comes second. The British,Austrians, Russians, and perhaps the French, maintain their ownpostoffices. Considerable efforts are being made by American, British,and other missionary institutions to better the condition of thenatives. The American Mission, conducted by the Presbyterians, has beenin operation more than seventy years. A few years ago they had onehundred and forty-three schools and more than seven thousand pupils. TheChurch of Scotland has a mission for the Jews. The British SyrianMission was established in 1864.Beyrout has comparatively little of interest for the traveler. I walkedout to the public garden one morning and found it closed, but I do notthink I missed much. As I went along from place to place, I hadopportunity to see the weavers, wood-turners, and marble-cutters attheir work. I stopped at a small candy factory, equipped with whatseemed to be good machinery for that kind of work. One day I watchedsome camels get up after their burdens of lumber had been tied on. Theykept up a peculiar distressing noise while they were being loaded, butgot up promptly when the time came. When a camel lies down, his legsfold up something like a carpenter's rule, and when he gets up, he firststraightens out one joint of the fore legs, then all of the hind legs,and finally, when the fore legs come straight, he is standing away up inthe air. The extensive buildings of the American College were visited,also the American Press, the missionary headquarters of Presbyterians inAmerica. On the third of October the Khedivial steamer _Assouan_ camealong, and I embarked for Haifa, in Galilee.CHAPTER IV.A FEW DAYS IN GALILEE.Years ago, when I first began to think of making the trip I am nowdescribing, I had no thought of the many interesting places that I couldeasily and cheaply visit on my way to Palestine. I did not then think ofwhat has been described on the foregoing pages. Now I have come to theplace where I am to tell my readers the story of my travels in the Landof Promise, and I want to make it as interesting and instructive aspossible. It is important to have a knowledge of the geography of allthe lands mentioned, but it is especially important to know the locationof the various places referred to in Palestine. These pages will be moreprofitable if the reader will make frequent reference to maps of theland, that he may understand the location of the different placesvisited. I shall first describe my trip across the province of Galilee,and take up my sight-seeing in Judaea in other chapters.The ancient Phoenician cities of Tyre and Sidon were on the coastbetween Beyrout and Haifa, where I entered Galilee on the fourth ofOctober, but we passed these places in the night. Haifa, situated at thebase of Mount Carmel, has no Biblical history, but is one of the twoplaces along the coast of Palestine where ships stop, Jaffa being theother. Mount Carmel is fourteen miles long, and varies in height fromfive hundred and fifty-six feet at the end next to the sea to eighteenhundred and ten feet at a point twelve miles inland. There is amonastery on the end next to the Mediterranean, which I reached after adusty walk along the excellent carriage road leading up from Haifa.After I rested awhile, reading my Bible and guide-book, I walked out tothe point where the sea on three sides, the beautiful little plain atthe base of the mountain, Haifa, and Acre across the bay, all made upone of the prettiest views of the whole trip. Owing to its proximity tothe sea and the heavy dews, Carmel was not so dry and brown as much ofthe country I had seen before.By the direction of Elijah, Ahab gathered the prophets of Baal,numbering four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the Asherah, fourhundred more, at some point on this mountain, probably at the easternend, passed on my way over to Nazareth later in the day. "And Elijahcame near unto all the people, and said, How long go ye limping betweenthe two sides? If Jehovah be God, follow him; but if Baal, then followhim" (1 Kings 18:21). He then proposed that two sacrifices be laid onthe wood, with no fire under them; that the false prophets should callon their god, and he would call on Jehovah. The God that answered byfire was to be God. "All the people answered and said, It is wellspoken." The prophets of Baal called upon him from morning till noon,saying, "O Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that answered.And they leaped about the altar that was made. And it came to pass atnoon that Elijah mocked them, and said, Cry aloud; for he is a god:either he is musing, or he is gone aside, or he is on a journey, orperadventure he sleepeth and must be awaked. And they cried aloud, andcut themselves after their manner with knives and lances, till theblood gushed out upon them. And it was so, when midday was past, thatthey prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening oblation;but there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded."The sincerity, earnestness, and perseverance of these people arecommendable, but they were _wrong_. Sincerity, although a most desirabletrait, can not change a wrong act into acceptable service to God, norcan earnestness and perseverance make such a change. It is necessaryboth to be honest and to do the will of our heavenly Father. After waterhad been poured over the other sacrifice till it ran down and filled thetrench around the altar, Elijah called on Jehovah, and in response tohis petition "the fire of Jehovah fell, and consumed the burnt offering,and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water thatwas in the trench." Elijah then took the false prophets down to thebrook Kishon, at the base of the mountain, and killed them. Acre is theAcco of the Old Testament, and lies around the bay, twelve mile fromHaifa. It is said that the Phoenicians obtained the dye called Tyrianpurple there, and that shells of the fish that yielded it are yet to befound along the beach. Napoleon besieged the place in 1799, and used amonastery, since destroyed, on Mount Carmel for a hospital. After hisretreat, Mohammedans killed the sick and wounded soldiers who had beenleft behind, and they were buried near the monastery. Acre was calledPtolemais in apostolic times, and Paul spent a day with the brethrenthere as he was on his way down the coast from Tyre to Jerusalem. (Acts21:7.)About noon I entered a carriage for Nazareth, in which there were fourother passengers: a lady connected with the English Orphanage inNazareth, and three boys going there to attend the Russian school. Abouttwo miles from Haifa we crossed the dry bed of the Kishon, as thisstream, like many others in Palestine, only flows in the wet season. Ourcourse led along the base of Carmel to the southeast, and the supposedplace of Elijah's sacrifice was pointed out. Afterwards Mount Gilboa,where Saul and Jonathan were slain, came in sight, and later we sawLittle Hermon with Nain upon it, Endor below it on one side, and Jezreelnot far away in another direction. We saw a good portion of the Plain ofEsdraelon, and Mount Tabor was in sight before we entered Nazareth,which lies on the slope of a hill and comes suddenly into view.Nazareth is not mentioned in the Old Testament, and the references to itin the New Testament are not numerous. When Joseph returned from Egyptin the reign of Archelaus, the son of Herod, he was afraid to go intoJudaea, "and being warned of God in a dream, he withdrew into the partsof Galilee, and came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth; that it mightbe fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, that he should be called aNazarene" (Matt. 2:19-23). I do not know the age of Jesus when Josephand Mary came with him to Nazareth, but "his parents went every year toJerusalem at the feast of the passover"; and we are told that the childwas twelve years old at the time his parents missed him as they werereturning from the feast, and later found him in the temple hearing theteachers and asking them questions. In this connection we are told that"he went down with them and came to Nazareth; and he was subject untothem" (Luke 2:51). Luke also informs us that Jesus, "when he began toteach, was about thirty years of age" (Luke 3:23). Thus we have aperiod of eighteen years between the incident in the temple and thebeginning of his public ministry, in which Jesus resided in Nazareth.The greater part of his earth life was spent in this Galilean city,where he was subject unto his parents. It is a blessed thing that somuch can be said of our Savior in so few words. It is highly commendablethat children be subject unto their parents, who love them dearly, andwho know best what is for their health, happiness, and future good.After his baptism and temptation in the wilderness, "Jesus returned inthe power of the spirit into Galilee, ... and he came to Nazareth, wherehe had been brought up: and he entered, as his custom was, into thesynagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read." When the roll of theScriptures was handed to him, he read from the opening verses of thesixty-first chapter of Isaiah, then "he closed the book, and gave itback to the attendant, and sat down: and the eyes of all in thesynagogue were fastened on him" as he told them: "To-day hath thisscripture been fulfilled in your ears," and although they "wondered atthe words of grace which proceeded out of his mouth," they were notwilling to accept his teaching, and as he continued to speak, "they wereall filled with wrath, ... and they rose up, and cast him forth out ofthe city, and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city wasbuilt, that they might throw him down headlong. But he, passing throughthe midst of them, went his way. And he came down to Capernaum, a cityof Galilee" (Luke 4:14-31).Having made arrangements for a carriage the evening I arrived inNazareth, before daylight the next morning I started to drive toTiberias, on the Sea of Galilee. When I went down stairs, at abouthalf-past three o'clock, I found a covered rig with two seats, and threehorses hitched to it side by side. I filed no objection to the size ofthe carriage, nor to the manner in which the horses were hitched. As thedriver could not speak English and the passenger could not speak Arabic,there was no conversation on the way. As we drove out of Nazareth, Iobserved a large number of women at the Virgin's Fountain, filling theirjars with water. At a distance of a little more than three miles wepassed through Kefr Kenna, the "Cana of Galilee," where Jesus performedhis first miracle. (John 2:1-11.) The road to Tiberias is not allsmooth, but is better than might be supposed. With three horses and alight load, we were able to move along in the cool of the morning at alively gait, passing a camel train, an occasional village, oliveorchard, or mulberry grove. After a while the light of the moon grewpale, and about six o'clock the great round sun came above the horizonin front of us, and it was not long until a beautiful sheet of water sixmiles long--the Sea of Galilee--came suddenly into view. We rolled alongthe winding curves of the carriage road, down the slope of the hill, andthrough a gateway in the old wall, to Tiberias, on the west shore of"Blue Galilee."According to Josephus, Herod Antipas began to build a new capital cityabout sixteen years before the birth of Jesus, and completed it in A.D.22. He named this new city Tiberias, in honor of the emperor, but itdoes not appear to have been a popular place with the Jews, and butlittle is said of it in the New Testament (John 21:1), yet it was not aninsignificant place. The Sanhedrin was transferred from Sepphoris, theold capital, to the new city, and here the school of the Talmud wasdeveloped against the gospel system. The ancient traditional law, calledthe "Mishna," is said to have been published here in A.D. 200, and thePalestinian Gemara (the so-called Jerusalem Talmud) came into existenceat this place more than a century later. The Tiberian pointing of theHebrew Bible began here. The present population is largely composed ofJews, about two-thirds of the inhabitants being descendants of Abraham.They wear large black hats or fur caps, and leave a long lock of hairhanging down in front of each ear. There is little in Tiberias tointerest the traveler who has seen the ruins of Rome, Athens andEphesus. The seashore bounds it on one side and an old stone wall runsalong at the other side. I walked past some of the bazaars, and saw themosque and ruined castle. About a mile down the shore are the hotsprings, which, for many centuries, have been thought to possessmedicinal properties. I tried the temperature of one of the springs, andfound it too hot to be comfortable to my hand. As I returned toTiberias, I had a good, cool bath in the sea, which is called by avariety of names, as "the sea of Tiberias," "sea of Galilee," "sea ofGenessaret," and "sea of Chinnereth." It is a small lake, thirteen mileslong, lying six hundred and eighty-two feet below the level of theMediterranean. The depth is given as varying from one hundred and thirtyto one hundred and sixty-five feet. It is really "Blue Galilee," and thesight of it is an agreeable change to the eye after one has beentraveling the dry, dusty roads leading through a country almostdestitute of green vegetation. In the spring, when the grass is growingand the flowers are in bloom, the highlands rising around the sea mustbe very beautiful.Several places mentioned in the New Testament were situated along theSea of Galilee, but they have fallen into ruin--in some cases into utterruin. One of these was Bethsaida, where Jesus gave sight to a blind man(Mark 8:22-26), and fed a multitude of about five thousand. (Luke9:10-17.) It was also the home of Philip, Andrew, and Peter. (John1:44.) It is thought by some that James and John also came from thisplace. On the northwestern shore was Chorazin, situated in theneighborhood of Bethsaida; also Capernaum, once the home of Jesus; andMagdala, the name of which "has been immortalized in every language ofChristendom as denoting the birth-place of Mary Magdalene, or better,Mary of Magdala." Safed is a large place on a mountain above the sea insight of the Nazareth road, and was occupied by the French in 1799. Itis said that the Jews have a tradition that the Messiah will come fromthis place. On the way back to Nazareth the driver stopped at the springof Kefr Kenna and watered his horses and rested them awhile. Hundreds ofgoats, calves, and other stock were being watered, and I saw an oldstone coffin being used for a watering trough.After another night in Nazareth, I was ready to go out to Mount Tabor.For this trip I had engaged a horse to ride and a man to go along andshow me where to ride it, for we did not follow a regular road, if,indeed, there is any such a thing leading to this historic place, whichis about six miles from Nazareth. It was only a little past fouro'clock in the morning when we started, and the flat top of themountain, two thousand and eighteen feet above sea level, was reached atan early hour. Mount Tabor is a well-shaped cone, with a good road forhorseback riding leading up its side. There is some evidence that therewas a city here more than two hundred years before Christ. Josephusfortified it in his day, and part of the old wall still remains.According to a tradition, contradicted by the conclusion of modernscholars, this is the mount of transfiguration. By the end of the sixthcentury three churches had been erected on the summit to commemorate thethree tabernacles which Peter proposed to build (Matt. 17:1-8), and nowthe Greek and Roman Catholics have each a monastery only a shortdistance apart, separated by a stone wall or fence. The extensive viewfrom the top is very fine, including a section of Galilee from theMediterranean to the sea of Tiberias.In the Book of Judges we read that Israel was delivered into the handsof the Canaanites, and was sorely oppressed for twenty years. Theprophetess Deborah sent for Barak, and instructed him with a messagefrom God to the end that he should take "ten thousand men of thechildren of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun" unto Mount Tabor.This he did, and Sisera assembled his nine hundred chariots "fromHarosheth of the Gentiles unto the river Kishon. So Barak went down fromMount Tabor and ten thousand men after him. ... Howbeit, Sisera fledaway on his feet to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber, the Kenite,"and she drove a tent-pin through his temples while he was lying asleep,(Judges 4:1-23.) The song of Deborah and Barak, beginning with thewords, "For that the leaders took the lead in Israel, for that thepeople offered themselves willingly, bless ye Jehovah," is recorded inthe fifth chapter of Judges.I was back in Nazareth by ten o'clock, and spent some hours lookingaround the city where the angel Gabriel announced to Mary the words:"Hail, thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee" (Luke 1:28).These hours, with what time I had already spent here, enabled me to seeseveral places of interest. Tradition points out many places connectedwith the lives of Joseph and Mary, but tradition is not always reliable,for it sometimes happens that the Greeks and the Romans each have adifferent location for the same event. This is true with regard to thepoint where the angry people were about to throw Jesus over "the brow ofthe hill" (Luke 4:29). I saw no place that struck me as being the onereferred to in the Scriptures, and in reply to an inquiry, a lady at theEnglish Orphanage, who has spent twenty years in Nazareth, said shethought it was some place on that side of the town, but the contour ofthe hill had probably changed. She also mentioned that the relics takenout in excavations were all found on that side, indicating that the oldcity had been built there. When Brother McGarvey visited Palestine, hefound two places that corresponded somewhat with Luke's reference to theplace. Concerning one of them he wrote: "I am entirely satisfied thathere is where the awful attempt was made." I was shown the "place ofannunciation" in the Latin monastery. On the top of a column stands thefigure of a female, probably representing the Virgin, and a bit of ruinthat is said to date back to the time of Constantine is pointed out.Here, I was told, stood the first church building erected in Nazareth.One of the "brothers" took the key and went around to a buildingsupposed to stand on the site of Joseph's carpenter shop. It is a smallchapel, built about 1858 over the ruins of some older structure. In thefloor of marble or stone there are two wooden trapdoors, which areraised to show the ruins below. Over the altar in the end opposite thedoor is a picture to represent the holy family, and there are some otherpictures in different parts of the little chapel. From here I went tothe Virgin's Fountain. If it be true that this is the only spring inNazareth, then I have no doubt that I was near the spot frequentlyvisited by the Nazarene maid who became the mother of our Lord. I saynear the spot, for the masonry where the spring discharges is about ahundred yards from the fountain, which is now beneath the floor of aconvent. The water flows out through the wall by two stone spouts, andhere the women were crowded around, filling their vessels or waiting fortheir turn. The flow was not very strong, and this helps to explain whyso many women were there before daylight the morning I went to Tiberias.I saw one woman, who was unable to get her vessel under the stream ofone of the spouts, drawing down a part of the water by sticking a leafagainst the end of the spout. I also visited some of the bazaars andwent to the Orphanage. This missionary institution is nicely situated ina prominent place well up on the hill, and is managed entirely by women,but a servant is kept to do outside work. They treated me very kindly,showing me about the building, and when the girls came in to supper theysang "the Nazareth Hymn" for me.One of the occupations of the people here is manufacturing a knife withgoat horn handles that is commonly seen in Palestine. Many of the womengo about the streets with their dresses open like a man's shirt whenunbuttoned, exposing their breasts in an unbecoming manner. The same istrue of many women in Jerusalem. About one-third of the mixed populationare Jews; the other two-thirds are Mohammedans and professingChristians, made up of Orthodox Greeks, United Greeks, Roman Catholics,Maronites (a branch of the Greek Church), and Protestants. I went backto Haifa and spent a night. The next morning I boarded the Austrian ship_Juno_ for Jaffa. When I first landed here I had trouble with theboatman, because he wanted me to pay him more than I had agreed to pay,and on this occasion I again had the same difficulty, twice as muchbeing demanded at the ship as was agreed upon at the dock; but I wasfirm and won my point both times. While in Galilee I had crossed theprovince from sea to sea; I had visited the city in which Jesus spentthe greater part of his earth life, and the sea closely connected withseveral important things in his career. I had ascended Carmel, and fromthe top of Tabor I had taken an extensive view of the land, and now Iwas satisfied to drop down the coast and enter Judaea.CHAPTER V.SIGHT-SEEING IN JERUSALEM.Before leaving the ship at Jaffa I was talking with Mr. Ahmed, agentleman from India, who had spent some time in Egypt, and had traveledextensively. He claimed to be a British subject, and was able to speakseveral languages. While we were arranging to go ashore together, oneof the many boatmen who had come out to the ship picked up my suit-casewhile my back was turned, and the next thing I saw of it he was takingit down the stairs to one of the small boats. By some loud and emphatictalk I succeeded in getting him to put it out of one boat into another,but he would not bring it back. Mr. Ahmed and I went ashore with anotherman, whom we paid for carrying us and our baggage. I found the suit-caseon the dock, and we were soon in the custom house, where my baggage andpassport were both examined, but Mr. Ahmed escaped having his baggageopened by paying the boatman an additional fee. As we arrived in Jaffatoo late to take the train for Jerusalem that day, we waited over nightin the city from whence Jonah went to sea so long ago. We lodged at thesame hotel and were quartered in the same room. This was the first andonly traveling companion I had on the whole journey, and I was a littleshy. I felt like I wanted some pledge of honorable dealing from my newlyformed acquaintance, and when he expressed himself as being a Britishsubject, I mentioned that I was an American and extended my hand,saying: "Let us treat each other right." He gave me his hand with thewords: "Species man, species man!" He meant that we both belonged to thesame class of beings, and should, therefore, treat each other right, avery good reason indeed. A long time before, in this same land, Abrahamhad expressed himself to Lot on a similar line in these words: "Letthere be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between myherdsmen and thy herdsmen; for we are brethren" (Gen. 13:8). On Saturdaywe moved our baggage over to the depot and boarded the train forJerusalem. On the way to the depot an old gentleman, whom I would haveguessed to be a German, passed me. When I entered the car it was my lotto ride by him. He learned that I had been to Bristol, England, and hadvisited the orphan homes founded by George Muller, and he remarked: "Youare a Christian, then." He probably said this because he thought noother would be interested in such work. It developed that he was aconverted Jew, and was conducting a mission for his people in the HolyCity. Without telling him my position religiously, I inquired concerningdifferent points, and found his faith and mine almost alike. This newacquaintance was D.C. Joseph, whose association I also enjoyed afterreaching Jerusalem.It was late in the afternoon of October ninth when we got off the trainat the Jerusalem station, which is so situated that the city can notbe seen from that point. By the time we had our baggage put away in anative hotel outside the city walls it was dark. We then started outto see if there was any mail awaiting me. First we went to the Turkishoffice, which was reached by a flight of dark stairs. Mr. Ahmed wentup rather slowly. Perhaps he felt the need of caution more than I did.According to my recollection, they handed us a candle, and allowed us toinspect the contents of a small case for the mail. We found nothing, sowe made our way down the dark stairway to the German office, situatedon the ground floor, nicely furnished and properly lighted, but therewas no mail there for me, as mail from America goes to the Austrianoffice, inside the Jaffa gate.The next day was Lord's day, and for the time being I ceased to bea tourist and gave myself up mainly to religious services. I firstattended the meeting conducted by Bro. Joseph at the mission to Israel.It was the first service I had attended, and the first opportunity thathad come to me for breaking bread since I left London, the last ofAugust. After this assembly of four persons was dismissed, I went to theservices of the Church of England and observed their order of worship.The minister was in a robe, and delivered a really good sermon of aboutfifteen minutes' duration, preceded by reading prayers and singingpraise for about an hour. By invitation, I took dinner with Miss Dunn,an American lady, at whose house Bro. Joseph was lodging. As she hadbeen in Jerusalem fifteen years and was interested in missionary work,I enjoyed her company as well as her cooking. After dinner I went to alittle iron-covered meeting-house called the "tabernacle," where a Mr.Thompson, missionary of the Christian Alliance, of Nyack, New York, wasthe minister. At the close of the Sunday-school a gentleman asked somequestions in English, and the native evangelist, Melki, translated theminto Arabic. By request of Mr. Thompson, I read the opening lesson andoffered prayer, after which he delivered a good address on the great,coming day, and at the close the Lord's Supper was observed. Iunderstood that they did this once a month, but it is attended to weeklyat the mission where I was in the morning. At the tabernacle I made theacquaintance of Mr. Stanton, a Methodist minister from the States; Mr.Jennings, a colored minister from Missouri, and Mr. Smith, an Americangentleman residing in Jerusalem. There was another meeting in thetabernacle at night, but I staid at the hotel and finished some writingto be sent off to the home land.Monday was a big day for me. Mr. Ahmed and I went down inside the Jaffagate and waited for Mr. Smith, who was our guide, Mr. Jennings, and aMr. Michelson, from California. Mr. Smith had been a farmer in America,but had spent three years at Jerusalem and Jericho. He was wellacquainted with the country, and we could depend upon what he told us.Add to all this the fact that he went around with us without charge, andit will be seen that we were well favored. On this Monday morning westarted out to take a walk to Bethany, the old home of that blessedfamily composed of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. We passed the Church ofthe Holy Sepulcher, walked along the street called the Via Dolorosa, andsaw several of the "stations" Jesus is supposed to have passed on theway to the execution on Calvary. We passed the traditional site of the"house of the rich man," the "house of the poor man," and the TempleArea. After passing the Church of St. Anne, we went out of the citythrough St. Stephen's gate, and saw the Birket Sitti Mariam, or Poolof Lady Mary, one hundred feet long, eighty-five feet wide, and oncetwenty-seven and a half feet deep. It is supposed that Stephen was ledthrough the gate now bearing his name and stoned at a point not fardistant. Going down the hill a few rods, we came to the Church of St.Mary, a building for the most part underground. It is entered by astairway nineteen feet wide at the top, and having forty-seven stepsleading to the floor thirty-five feet below. We went down, and inthe poorly lighted place we found some priests and others singing orchanting, crossing themselves, kissing a rock, and so on. This churchprobably gets its name from the tradition that the mother of Jesus wasburied here. Just outside the church is a cavern that is claimed by someto be the place of Christ's agony, and by others, who may have given thematter more thought, it is supposed to be an old cistern, or place forstoring olive oil or grain. Perhaps I would do well to mention here thattradition has been in operation a long time, and the stories she haswoven are numerous indeed, but often no confidence can be placed inthem. I desire to speak of things of this kind in such a way as not tomislead my readers. It was near this church that I saw lepers for thefirst time. The valley of the Kidron is the low ground lying betweenJerusalem and the Mount of Olives. The water flows here only in the wetpart of the year. Crossing this valley and starting up the slope of theMount of Olives, we soon come to a plot of ground inclosed by a highstone wall, with a low, narrow gateway on the upper side. This place isof great interest, as it bears the name "Garden of Gethsemane," and isprobably the spot to which the lowly Jesus repaired and prayed earnestlythe night before his execution, when his soul was "exceeding sorrowful,even unto death." It is really a garden, filled with flowers, and olivetrees whose trunks, gnarled and split, represent them as being very old,but it is not to be supposed that they are the same trees beneath whichJesus prayed just before Judas and "the band of soldiers and officers"came out to arrest him. There is a fence inside the wall, leaving apassageway around the garden between the wall and the fence. Where thetrees reach over the fence a woven-wire netting has been fixed up, tokeep the olives from dropping on the walk, where tourists could pickthem up for souvenirs. The fruit of these old trees is turned into oliveoil and sold, and the seeds are used in making rosaries. At intervalson the wall there are pictures representing the fourteen stations Jesuspassed as he was being taken to the place of crucifixion. This gardenis the property of the Roman Catholics, and the Greeks have selectedanother spot, which they regard as the true Gethsemane, just as eachchurch holds a different place at Nazareth to be the spot where theangry Nazarenes intended to destroy the Savior.Leaving the garden, we started on up the slope of Olivet, and passed thefine Russian church, with its seven tapering domes, that shine like thegold by which they are said to be covered. It appears to be one of thefinest buildings of Jerusalem. As we went on, we looked back and had agood view of the Kidron valley and the Jews' burial place, alongthe slope of the mountain, where uncounted thousands of Abraham'sdescendants lie interred. Further up toward the summit is the Church ofthe Lord's Prayer, a building erected by a French princess, whose bodyis now buried within its walls. This place is peculiar on account of atleast two things. That portion of Scripture commonly called "the Lord'sprayer" is here inscribed on large marble slabs in thirty-two differentlanguages, and prayer is said to be offered here continually. There isanother church near the Damascus gate, where two "sisters" are said tobe kneeling in prayer at all hours. I entered the beautiful place atdifferent times, and always found it as represented, but it should notbe supposed that the same women do all the praying, as they doubtlesshave enough to change at regular intervals. The Church of the Creed is,according to a worthless tradition, the place where the apostles drew up"the creed." It is under the ground, and we passed over it on the wayto the Church of the Lord's Prayer. The Mount of Olives is two thousandseven hundred and twenty-three feet above sea level, and is about twohundred feet higher than Mount Moriah. From the summit a fine view ofJerusalem and the surrounding country may be obtained. The Russians haveerected a lofty stone tower here. After climbing the spiral stairwayleading to the top of it, one is well rewarded by the extensive view.Looking out from the east side, we could gaze upon the Dead Sea, sometwenty miles away, and more than four thousand feet below us. We visitedthe chambers called the "Tombs of the Prophets," but the name is not asufficient guarantee to warrant us in believing them to be the burialplaces of the men by whom God formerly spoke to the people. On the wayto Bethany we passed the reputed site of Beth-page (Mark 11:1), and sooncame to the town where Jesus performed the great miracle of raisingLazarus after he had been dead four days. (John 11:1-46.) The placepointed out as the tomb corresponds to the Scripture which says "It wasa cave" where they laid him. Twenty-six steps lead down to the chamberwhere his body is said to have lain when the "blessed Redeemer" criedwith a loud voice, "Lazarus, come forth." Whether this is the exact spotor not, it is probably a very ancient cave. One writer claims that itis as old as the incident itself, and says these rock-cut tombs are theoldest landmarks of Palestine. Tradition points out the home of Lazarus,and there is a portion of an old structure called the Castle of Lazarus,which Lazarus may never have seen. Bethany is a small village, occupiedby a few Mohammedan families, who dislike the "Christians." On therising ground above the village stands a good modern stone house,owned by an English lady, who formerly lived in it, but her servant, aMohammedan, made an effort to cut her throat, and almost succeeded inthe attempt. Naturally enough, the owner does not wish to live therenow, so we found the building in the care of a professing Christian,who treated us with courtesy, giving us a good, refreshing drink, andpermitting us to go out on the roof to look around.From this point we turned our footsteps toward Jerusalem, "about fifteenfurlongs off"--that is, about two miles distant. (John 11:18.) Whenwe reached the lower part of the slope of Olivet, where the tombs ofdeparted Jews are so numerous, Mr. Michelson and Mr. Jennings went onacross the Kidron valley and back to their lodging places, while Mr.Ahmed, Mr. Smith and I went down to Job's well, in the low ground belowthe city. The Tower of Absalom, the Tomb of James, and the Pyramidof Zachariah were among the first things we saw. They are all burialplaces, but we can not depend upon them being the actual tombs of thosewhose names they bear. The first is a peculiar monument nineteen andone-half feet square and twenty-one feet high, cut out of the solidrock, and containing a chamber, which may be entered by crawling througha hole in the side. On the top of the natural rock portion a structureof dressed stone, terminating in one tapering piece, has been erected,making the whole height of the monument forty-eight feet. The Jews havea custom of pelting it with stones on account of Absalom's misconduct,and the front side shows the effect of their stone-throwing. The Grottoof St. James is the traditional place of his concealment from the timeJesus was arrested till his resurrection. The Pyramid of Zachariah isa cube about thirty feet square and sixteen feet high, cut out of thesolid rock, and surmounted by a small pyramid. It has many names cutupon it in Hebrew letters, and there are some graves near by, as this isa favorite burial place. Some of the bodies have been buried between themonument and the wall around it in the passage made in cutting it out ofthe rock. Going on down the valley, we have the village of Siloam on thehill at our left, and on the other side of the Kidron, the southeasternpart of the Holy City. St. Mary's Well is soon reached. This spring,which may be the Gihon of 1 Kings 1:33, is much lower than the surfaceof the ground, the water being reached by two flights of stairs,one containing sixteen steps, the other fourteen. The spring isintermittent, and flows from three to five times daily in winter. Itflows twice a day in summer, but in the autumn it only flows once in theday. When I was there, the spring was low, and two Turkish soldiers wereon duty to preserve order among those who came to get water.The Pool of Siloam, fifty-two feet long and eighteen feet wide, isfarther down the valley. The spring and the pool are about a thousandfeet apart, and are connected by an aqueduct through the hill, which,owing to imperfect engineering, is seventeen hundred feet long. Froma Hebrew inscription found in the lower end of this passageway it waslearned that the excavation was carried on from both ends. A littlebelow the Pool of Siloam the valley of the Kidron joins the valley ofHinnom, where, in ancient times, children were made "to pass through thefire to Moloch" (2 Kings 23:10). Job's Well, perhaps the En Rogel, onthe northern border of Judah (Joshua 15:7), is rectangular in shape andone hundred and twenty-three feet deep. Sometimes it overflows, but itseldom goes dry. When I saw it, no less than six persons were drawingwater with ropes and leather buckets. The location of Aceldama, thefield of blood, has been disputed, but some consider that it was on thehill above the valley of Hinnom. There are several rock-cut tombs alongthe slope of the hill facing the valley of Hinnom, and some of them arebeing used as dwelling places. The Moslems have charge of a buildingoutside the city walls, called David's Tomb, which they guard verycarefully, and only a portion of it is accessible to visitors. Near thisplace a new German Catholic church was being erected at a cost of fourhundred thousand dollars. We entered the city by the Zion gate, andpassed the Tower of David, a fortification on Mount Zion, near the Jaffagate.On the ship coming down from Beyrout I had a conversation with a man whoclaimed to have been naturalized in the United States, and to havegone to Syria to visit his mother, but, according to his story, he wasarrested and imprisoned by the Turks. After being mistreated in thefilthy prison for some time, he secured his release by bribing a soldierto post a letter to one of the American authorities. He expressed adesire to visit Jerusalem, but seemed afraid to get back into Turkishterritory. Learning that I was going there, he wrote a letter to theArmenian Patriarch, and I presented it one day. In a few minutes Mr.Ahmed and I were led into the large room where the Patriarch was seatedin his robe and peculiar cap. Meeting a dignitary of the Armenian Churchwas a new experience to me. I shook hands with him; Mr. Ahmed made somesigns and sat down. In the course of our limited conversation he saidrather slowly: "I am very old." Replying to a question, he informed methat his age was eighty years. I was on the point of leaving, but hehindered me, and an attendant soon came in with some small glasses ofwine and a little dish of candy. The Patriarch drank a glass of wine,and I took a piece of the candy, as also did Mr. Ahmed, and then we tookour leave.The eleventh day of October, which was Tuesday, was occupied with a tripto Hebron, described in another chapter devoted to the side trips I madefrom Jerusalem, but the next day was spent in looking around the HolyCity. Early in the morning the Mamilla Pool, probably the "upper pool"of 2 Kings 18:17, was seen. One author gives the dimensions of thispool as follows: Length, two hundred and ninety-one feet; breadth, onehundred and ninety-two feet; depth, nineteen feet. It is filled withwater in the rainy season, but was empty when I saw it. Entering thecity by the Jaffa gate, I walked along David and Christian Streets, andwas shown the Pool of Hezekiah, which is surrounded by houses, and wassupplied from the Mamilla Pool.The next place visited was that interesting old building, the Church ofthe Holy Sepulcher, where our Lord is supposed to have been buried inJoseph's new tomb. Jerusalem has many things of great interest, but somefew things are of special interest. The Temple Area and Calvary are ofthis class. I am sure my readers will want to know something of each,and I shall here write of the latter. No doubt the spot where Jesus wascrucified and the grave in which he was buried were both well known tothe brethren up to the destruction of the city in the year seventy.Before this awful calamity the Christians made their escape, and whenthey returned they "would hardly recognize the fallen city as the onethey had left; the heel of the destroyer had stamped out all semblanceof its former glory. For sixty years it lay in ruins so complete thatit is doubtful if there was a single house that could be used as aresidence; during these years its history is a blank." There is nomention of the returned Christians seeking out the site of eitherthe crucifixion or burial, and between A.D. 120 and A.D. 136 Hadrianreconstructed the city, changing it to a considerable extent, and namingit Aelia Capitolina. This would tend to make the location of Calvarymore difficult. Hadrian built a temple to Venus, probably on the spotnow occupied by the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, and Eusebius, writingabout A.D. 325, speaks of Constantine's church built on the site ofthis temple. It is claimed that Hadrian's heathen temple was erectedto desecrate the place of Christ's entombment, and that Constantine'schurch, being erected on the site of the temple, and regarded as theplace called Calvary, fixes this as the true site; but whether thechurch and temple were on the same site or not, the present churchstands where the one built by Constantine stood, and is regarded by themass of believers as the true location.Constantine's church stood two hundred and eighty years, being destroyedby Chosroes II., of Persia, in A.D. 614, but was soon succeeded byanother structure not so grand as its predecessor. In 1010, in the"reign of the mad caliph Hakem," the group of churches was entirelydestroyed, and the spot lay desolate for thirty years, after whichanother church was erected, being completed in eight years. Thisbuilding was standing in 1099, the time of the Crusaders, but wasdestroyed by fire in 1808. This fire "consumed many of the most sacredrelics in the church. Marble columns of great age and beauty crumbled inthe flames. The rich hangings and pictures were burned, along with lampsand chandeliers and other ornaments in silver and gold. The lead withwhich the great dome was lined melted, and poured down in streams." Thebuilding now standing there was finished in 1810 at a cost of nearlythree millions of dollars, one-third of this, it is said, being expendedin lawsuits and Mohammedan bribes. It is the property of severaldenominations, who adorn their separate chapels to suit themselves.The church is entered from a court having two doors or gates. Worshiperspass through the court, and stop at the left-hand side of the door andkiss the marble column, which clearly shows the effect of this practice.Just inside of the building there is a guard, composed of members of theoldest Mohammedan family in the city. The reader may wonder why an armedguard should be kept in a church house, but such a reader has not seenor read of all the wickedness that is carried on in the support ofsectarianism. Concerning this guard, which, at the time of the holy firedemonstration, is increased by several hundred soldiers, Edmund ShermanWallace, a former United States Consul in this city, says in his"Jerusalem the Holy": "This Christian church has a Moslem guard, whoseduty it is to keep peace among the various sects who profess belief inthe Prince of Peace. * * * It is a sickening fact that Moslem bruteforce must compel Christians to exercise, not charity toward each other,but common decency and decorum. But it is a fact nevertheless, and willremain apparent to all so long as priestcraft takes the place of NewTestament Christianity and superstition supplants religion."A little beyond this guard is the "Stone of Unction," upon which manybelieve Jesus was prepared for burial, but the original stone for whichthis claim was made is not now visible, being covered with the presentslab to keep it from being worn out by the kissing of pious pilgrims.It is eight and a half feet long and four feet wide. Pilgrims sometimesbring the goods for their burial robes here and measure them by thisstone. Some large candles stand by it, and above it are eight finelamps, belonging to the Greek and Roman Catholics, the Copts, andArmenians. Not far away is a small stone, which I understood was calledthe place where the women watched the preparation by Joseph of Arimatheaand Nicodemus. (John 19:38-42.)In the center of the rotunda, with its entrance facing the east, is theChapel of the Sepulcher, the holiest place in all this holy building.Passing through the small door, the visitor finds himself in the Chapelof the Angels, a very small room, where a piece of stone, said to havebeen rolled away from the grave by the angels, is to be seen. Stoopingdown, the visitor passes through a low opening and enters the Chapel ofthe Sepulcher proper, a room only six and a half feet long and six feetwide. The "tomb" is at the right hand of the entrance, occupying abouthalf of the floor, above which it rises two feet. It is covered withmarble, so that even if this were the very spot where the Lord andSavior was laid by the hands of kind friends, the modern visitor wouldnot know what it looked like when that event took place. The littlechapel, capable of accommodating about six people at a time, containssome pictures and forty-three silver lamps, the property of the Copts,Armenians, Greek and Roman Catholics. A priest stands on guard, so thatno damage may be done to any part of the place.The Greek chapel, the largest, and to my notion the finest that I saw,is just in front of the sepulcher. From its having two sections and apartition, I was reminded of the tabernacle of the wilderness journey.Services were being conducted once while I was there, and I saw thePatriarch and others, gorgeously robed, going through with a servicethat was at least spectacular, if not spiritual. At one point in theexercises those participating came down close to where I was standing,passed around the spot designated "the center of the world," and wentback again to the farther end of the richly ornamented room. One of thepriests, with hair reaching down on his shoulders, bore a silver vessel,which I suppose contained burning incense. The long hair, beautifulrobes, the singing, praying, and such things, made up a service thatreminded me of the days of Solomon and the old priesthood.The demonstration of the "holy fire" takes place in this church once ayear, and there are thousands who believe that the fire passed out fromthe Chapel of the Angels really comes from heaven. This occurs on theSaturday afternoon preceding Easter, and the eager, waiting throng, apart of which has been in the building since the day before, soon hasits hundreds of little candles lighted. As the time for the appearanceof the fire approaches the confusion becomes greater. Near the entranceto the sepulcher a group of men is repeating the words: "This is thetomb of Jesus Christ;" not far from them others are saying: "This isthe day the Jew mourns and the Christian rejoices;" others expressthemselves in the language: "Jesus Christ has redeemed us;" andoccasionally "God save the Sultan" can be heard.Mr. Wallace, from whose book the foregoing items are gleaned, in tellingof a fight which took place at one stage of the service, describes it as"a mass of wriggling, struggling, shrieking priests and soldiers, eachapparently endeavoring to do all the possible injury to whomever hecould reach. * * * But the fight went on. Greek trampled on Armenian,and Armenian on Greek, and Turk on both. Though doing his very best, thecommanding officer seemed unable to separate the combatants. The buglerang out time after time, and detachment after detachment of soldiersplunged into the melee. * * * This went on for fifteen minutes. Justhow much damage was done nobody will ever know. There were a numberof bruised faces and broken heads, and a report was current that twopilgrims had died from injuries received." This disgraceful and wickeddisturbance is said to have been brought about by the Armenians wantingtwo of their priests to go with the Greek Patriarch as far as theChapel of the Angels. And it is furthermore said that the defeat of theArmenians was brought about, to some extent at least, by the muscularstrength of an American professional boxer and wrestler, whom theGreeks had taken along in priestly garb as a member of the Patriarch'sbodyguard. It is not surprising that Mr. Wallace has written: "TheChurch of the Holy Sepulcher gives the non-Christian world the worstpossible illustration of the religion of Him in whose name it stands."As I was going through the city, I saw a camel working an olive press.The poor blindfolded animal was compelled to walk in a circle sosmall that the outside trace was drawn tightly over its leg, causingirritation; but seeing the loads that are put upon dumb brutes, and mentoo, sometimes, one need not expect much attention to be given to thecomfort of these useful servants. Truly, there is great need for therefining, civilizing, and uplifting influence of the gospel here in thecity where it had its earliest proclamation. I also visited two gristmills operated by horses on a treadmill, which was a large wooden wheelturned on its side, so the horses could stand on it. I was not pleasedwith the nearness of the manure in one of these mills to the materialfrom which the "staff of life" is made.The German Protestant Church of the Redeemer is a fine structure on theMuristan, completed in 1898. The United States consulate is near theAustrian postoffice inside of the Jaffa gate. I went there and restedawhile, but saw the consul, Selah Merrill, at his hotel, where I alsomet Mrs. Merrill, and formed a favorable opinion of both of them. Here Ileft my belt, checks, and surplus money in the care of the consul.Continuing my walk on Wednesday, I passed one of the numerous threshingfloors of the country. This one was the face of a smooth rock, but theyare often the ground on some elevated spot, where a good breeze can behad to blow away the chaff, for the grain is now threshed and cleaned bythe primitive methods of long ago. After the grain has been tramped out(1 Cor. 9:9), the straw, now worn to chaff, is piled up, and when afavorable wind blows, a man tosses it in the air with a wooden fork. Thegrain falls in a pile at his feet and the chaff is carried asidesome distance. When this operation has been carried on as long as isprofitable, the wheat and what chaff remains in it are thrown into theair with a wooden shovel, called in our Bibles a "fan." (Matt. 3:12.)The final cleaning is done by washing the grain, or with a sieve.The Tombs of the Kings, which may never have contained a king, areextensive and interesting. They are surrounded by a wall, and to reachthem the visitor must go down a very wide stairway. The steps probablydo not number more than twenty-five, but the distance from one side ofthe stairs to the other is twenty-seven feet. There are channels cut inthe rock to carry the water that comes down these steps to the cisterns,two in number, one of which is a good-sized room cut in the rock at theside of the stairway. It contained about three feet of water when I sawit, although there had been no rain in Jerusalem for half a year. Theother one, at the bottom of the stairs, is much larger, and was empty.The vaulted roof is supported by a column, and there are steps leadingfrom one level of the floor to another.Turning to the left at the foot of the big stairway, we passed throughan arch cut through the rock into a court made by excavating the earthand stone to a depth of perhaps twenty feet. It is ninety feet long andeighty-one feet wide. The entrance to the tombs is by a vestibule cut inthe rock at one side of the court, and it appears that this once had arow of pillars along the front, like veranda posts. We went down a fewsteps and stooped low enough to pass through an opening about a yardhigh. Beyond this we found ourselves in a good-sized room, cut in thesolid rock. There are five of these rooms, and so far as the appearanceis concerned, one might suppose they had been made in modern times, butthey are ancient. The bodies were usually buried in "pigeon-holes" cutback in the walls of the rooms, but there are some shelf tombs, whichare sufficiently described in their name. One room seems never to havebeen completed, but there are burial places here for about forty people.One of the interesting things about these tombs is the rolling stone bywhich they were closed. It is a round rock, resembling a millstone. Theheight is a little over three feet and a half, and the thickness sixteeninches. It stands in a channel cut for the purpose, but was rolledforward before the entrance when it was desirable to have the tombsclosed. When Jesus was buried, a "great stone" was rolled to the mouthof the sepulcher, and the women thought of this as they went to the tombon the first day of the week, saying: "Who shall roll us away the stonefrom the door of the tomb?" (Mark 16:3.) They went on and found the tombopen; so, also, we may often find the stone rolled away if we will goforward in the discharge of our duties, instead of sitting down to mournat the thought of something in the distance which seems too difficult.On our way to the tombs just mentioned, we passed the American Colony,a small band of people living together in a rather peculiar manner,but they are not all Americans. I understood that there had been nomarriages among them for a long time until a short while before I wasin Jerusalem. Some of them conduct a good store near the Jaffa gate. Wepassed an English church and college and St. Stephen's Church on the wayto Gordon's Calvary. This new location of the world's greatest tragedyis a small hill outside the walls on the northern side of the city. TheChurch of the Holy Sepulcher stands on ground which for fifteen hundredyears has been regarded as the true site of our Lord's death and burial,but since Korte, a German bookseller, visited the city in 1738, doubtshave been expressed as to the correctness of the tradition. Jesus"suffered without the gate" (Heb. 13:12), and "in the place where he wascrucified there was a garden; and in the garden a new tomb wherein wasman never yet laid" (John 19:41), and it appears to have been near apublic road. (Mark 15:29.) In 1856 Edward Robinson, an American, offeredproof that the site sustained by the old tradition was inside the citywalls at the time of the crucifixion, and more recent discoveries, madein excavating, confirm his proof. The new Calvary meets the requirementsof the above mentioned scriptures, and gets its name "Gordon's Calvary,"from the fact that General Gordon wrote and spoke in favor of this beingthe correct location, and a photographer attached his name to a view ofthe place. In the garden adjoining the new Calvary I visited a tomb,which some suppose to be the place of our Lord's burial.On the way back to my lodging place we passed the Damascus gate, themost attractive of all the old city gates, and one often representedin books. It was built or repaired in 1537, and stands near an oldergateway that is almost entirely hidden by the accumulated rubbish ofcenturies, only the crown of the arch now showing. As we went on wepassed the French Hospice, a fine modern building, having two largestatues on it. The higher one represents the Virgin and her child, theother is a figure of the Savior. The Catholic church already mentioned,where two sisters are to be seen in prayer at all times, is near theHospice. It is a rather impressive sight to stand in this beautiful butsilent place, and see those women in white robes kneeling there almostas motionless as statues.Thursday and a part of Friday was taken up with a trip to Jericho, butwe got back in time to spend the afternoon in looking around Jerusalem,and we had an interesting visit to the home of Mrs. Schoenecke, a Germanlady, whose father, named Schick, spent fifty-six years of his life inJerusalem. From what information Mr. Schick could gather from the Bible,Josephus, the Talmud, and his personal observations during the time thePalestine Exploration Fund was at work, he constructed large models ofthe ancient temples that stood on Mount Moriah from the days of Solomonto the time of Herod and Christ. I was told that the original modelswere sold to an American college for five thousand dollars. Mr.Schick then constructed the models shown to us, and explained by Mrs.Schoenecke. We were also shown a model of the tabernacle used whileIsrael was marching to the promised land.The Wailing Place is a rectangle one hundred feet long by fifteen feetwide on the outside of the Temple Area, on the western side, where thewall is about sixty feet high. Some of the stones in this section are oflarge size, and authorities admit that they are of Solomon's time, butthe wall in which they now stand may be a reconstruction. The Jews comehere on the Sabbath, beginning at sundown on Saturday, for a servicewhich one author describes as follows: "Nearest to him stood a row ofwomen clad in robes of spotless white. Their eyes were bedimmed withweeping, and tears streamed down their cheeks as they sobbed aloudwith irrepressible emotion. Next to the women stood a group ofPharisees--Jews from Poland and Germany. * * * The old hoary-headed mengenerally wore velvet caps edged with fur, long love-locks or ringletsdangling on their thin cheeks, and their outer robes presented astriking contrast of gaudy colors. Beyond stood a group of Spanish Jews.* * * Besides these there are Jews from every quarter of the world, whohad wandered back to Jerusalem that they might die in the city of theirfathers, and be buried in the Valley of Jehoshaphat, under the shadow ofthe Temple Hill. The worshipers gradually increased in number until thecrowd thronging the pavement could not be fewer than two hundred. It wasan affecting scene to notice their earnestness; some thrust their handsbetween the joints of the stones, and pushed into the crevices, as faras possible, little slips of paper, on which were written, in the Hebrewtongue, short petitions addressed to Jehovah. Some even prayed withtheir mouths thrust into the gaps, where the weather-beaten stones wereworn away at the joints. * * * The congregation at the Wailing Place isone of the most solemn gatherings left to the Jewish Church, and, as thewriter gazed at the motley concourse, he experienced a feeling of sorrowthat the remnants of the chosen race should be heartlessly thrustoutside the sacred inclosure of their fathers' holy temple by men of analien race and an alien creed." So far as I know, all writers give theseworshipers credit for being sincere, but on the two occasions when Ivisited the place, I saw no such emotion as described in the foregoingquotation. The following lines are often rehearsed, the leader readingone at a time, after which the people respond with the words: "We sit insolitude and mourn."  "For the place that lies desolate;   For the place that is destroyed;   For the walls that are overthrown;   For our majesty that is departed;   For our great men who lie dead;   For the precious stones that are buried;   For the priests who have stumbled;   For our kings who have despised Him."This solemn practice has been observed for about twelve hundred years,but the same place may not have been used all the time. "She is become awidow, that was great among the nations! She that was a princess amongthe provinces is become tributary! Jerusalem hath grievously sinned;therefore she is become as an unclean thing" (Lam. 1: 1, 8).On Friday evening we entered some of the many synagogues yet to be foundin Jerusalem and observed the worshipers. On Saturday we went to theHouse of Industry of the English church, where boys are taught to work.Olive wood products are made for the tourist trade. We passed a placewhere some men were making a peculiar noise as they were pounding wheatand singing at their work. This pounding was a part of the process ofmaking it ready for food. An old lady was standing in an open doorspinning yarn in a very simple manner. We watched her a few minutes, andI wanted to buy the little arrangement with which she was spinning, butshe didn't care to part with it. She brought out another one, and let mehave it after spinning a few yards upon it. I gave her a Turkish coinworth a few cents, for which she seemed very thankful, and said, as Mr.Ahmed explained: "God bless you and give you long life. I am old, andmay die to-day." She told us that she came from Mosul, away beyond theSyrian desert, to die in Jerusalem. We visited the synagogue of theCaraite Jews, a small polygamous sect, numbering in this assemblyabout thirty persons. They also differ from the majority of Hebrews inrejecting the Talmud, but I believe they have a Talmud of their own.Their place of worship is a small room almost under the ground, where wewere permitted to see a very fine old copy of the Hebrew Scriptures, ourOld Testament. The work was done by hand, and I was told the man whodid it was sixteen years of age when he began it, and was sixty when hefinished the work, and that the British Museum had offered five thousanddollars for the book. Some of these people speak English, and weconversed with one woman who was quite intelligent. They kindlypermitted us to go up and view the city from the housetop.In the afternoon we visited the Temple Area, an inclosure of aboutthirty-five acres, in the southeastern part of the city, including theMosque of Omar (more appropriately called the Dome of the Rock), theMosque El Aksa, and Solomon's Stables. For Christians to enter thisinclosure, it is necessary to notify their consul and secure the serviceof his _cavasse_, an armed guard, and a Turkish soldier, both ofwhom must be paid for their services. Thus equipped, we entered theinclosure, and came up on the east front of the Dome of the Rock,probably so named from the fact that the dome of this structure standsover an exposed portion of the natural rock, fifty-seven feet long,forty-three feet wide, and rising a few feet above the floor. Afterputting some big slippers on over our shoes, we entered the buildingand saw this great rock, which tradition says is the threshing floorof Araunah, and the spot where Melchizedek sacrificed. It is also thetraditional place where Abraham sacrificed Isaac, and it is believedthat David built an altar here after the angel of destruction had putup his sword. It is furthermore supposed that the great altar of burntofferings stood on this rock in the days of Solomon's Temple, whichis thought to have been located just west of it. This is the probablelocation of Zerubbabel's Temple, and the one enlarged and beautifiedby Herod, which was standing when Jesus was on earth, and continued tostand until the awful destruction of the city by the Roman army in A.D.70.The modern visitor to this fine structure would have no thought of theancient temple of God if he depended upon what he sees here to suggestit. All trace of that house has disappeared. The Dome of the Rock, saidto be "the most beautiful piece of architecture in Jerusalem," belongsto the Turks. It has eight sides, each about sixty-six and a half feetlong, and is partly covered with marble, but it is, to some extent, in astate of decay. Between the destruction of the temple and the erectionof this building a heathen temple and a church had been built on thespot.The Mosque El Aksa was also visited, but it is noted more for its sizethan the beauty of its architecture. The Turkish Governor of Palestinecomes here every Friday to worship at the time the Sultan is engagedin like manner in Constantinople. Solomon's Stables next engaged ourattention. We crossed the Temple Area to the wall on the southeasternborder, and went down a stairway to these underground chambers, whichwere made by building about a hundred columns and arching them over andlaying a pavement on the top, thereby bringing it up on a level withthe rest of the hill. The vaults are two hundred and seventy-three feetlong, one hundred and ninety-eight feet wide, and about thirty feethigh. They were not made for stables, but were used for that purpose inthe middle ages, and the holes through the corners of the square stonecolumns show where the horses were tied. A large portion of thesechambers has been made into a cistern or reservoir.After a visit to what is called the Pool of Bethesda and the Church ofSt. Anne, we went outside the city wall on the north side and enteredwhat looks like a cave, but upon investigation proves to be an extensiveunderground quarry. These excavations, called Solomon's Quarries,extend, according to one authority, seven hundred feet under the hillBezetha, which is north of Mt. Moriah. The rock is very white, and willtake some polish. Loose portions of it are lying around on the floorof the cavern, and there are distinct marks along the sides where theancient stone-cutters were at work. In one part of the quarries we wereshown the place where visiting Masons are said to hold lodge meetingssometimes. Vast quantities of the rock have been taken out, and this isprobably the source from whence much of the building material of the oldcity was derived.The trip to the quarries ended my sight-seeing for the week. The nextmorning I went to the Church of the Holy Sepulcher and witnessed a partof the service of the Greek Catholics. At a later hour I went around tothe mission conducted by Bro. Joseph, and, with the little congregationthere assembled, broke bread in memory of Him who in this city, almosttwo thousand years ago, gave his life for the sins of the world, afterhaving instituted this supper, a monumental institution, representingto our minds the cost of the world's redemption. In the afternoon Iattended the preaching service in Mr. Thompson's tabernacle, and visitedthe Abyssinian church, near Mr. Smith's house. This Abyssinian house iscircular, and has a small, round room in the center, around which thecongregation stands and worships, leaning on their staves, for the placeis void of seats. At night I preached in the tabernacle on the question:"What must I do to be saved?" Melki, the native evangelist, translatedfor me as I went along, and the congregation paid good attention andseemed pleased to have heard me. I know I am pleased to have hadopportunity to "preach the word" in the city from whence it was firstpublished to the world.One of the first sights beheld when I started out on Monday morning wasa foundation, laid at the expense of a woman who intended to build ahouse for the "hundred and forty-four thousand." It represents one ofthe many peculiar religious ideas that find expression in and aroundJerusalem. We went on to the railway station, where I saw a young man, aJew, leave for that far-off land called America. Next the Leper Hospitalwas visited. This well-kept institution is in the German colony, and hadseveral patients of both sexes. A lady, who spoke some English, kindlyshowed me through the hospital, and explained that the disease is notcontagious, but hereditary, and that some lepers refuse to enter thehospital because they are forbidden to marry. The patients were ofvarious ages, and showed the effects of the disease in different stages.In some cases it makes the victim a sad sight to look upon. I rememberone of these poor, afflicted creatures, whose face was almost coveredwith swollen and inflamed spots. Some were blind, and some had lostpart or all of their fingers by the disease. One man's nose was partlyconsumed.At Bishop Gobat's school we were kindly received, and given a good,refreshing drink. The founder of this school, a member of the Englishchurch, was one of the pioneers in Jerusalem mission work, and stoodvery high in the estimation of the people. His grave is to be seen inthe cemetery near the school, where one may also see the supposed siteof the ancient city wall. Besides the Leper Hospital, we visited anotherhospital under German control, where patients may have medical attentionand hospital service for the small sum of one _mejidi_, about eightycents, for a period, of fifteen days, but higher fees are charged inother departments. We soon reached the English hospital, maintained bythe Society for the Promotion of Christianity among the Jews. It isbuilt on a semi-circular plan in such a way that the wards, extendingback from the front, admit light from both sides. This institution isfree to the Jews, but I understand Mohammedans were not admitted withouta fee.The Syrian Orphanage had about three hundred children in it, who werebeing instructed in books and in manual labor. Those who can see aretaught to work in wood, to make a kind of tile used in constructingpartitions, and other lines of useful employment. They had some blindchildren, who were being taught to make baskets and brushes. On the wayback to Mr. Smith's I stopped at the Jewish Library, a small two-storybuilding, having the books and papers upstairs. They have a raised mapof Palestine, which was interesting to me, after having twice crossedthe country from sea to sea.The last Thursday I was in the city I went with some friends to theIsraelite Alliance School, an institution with about a thousand pupils,who receive both an industrial and a literary education. We wereconducted through the school by a Syrian gentleman named Solomon Elia,who explained that, while the institution is under French control,English is taught to some extent, as some of the pupils would goto Egypt, where they would need to use this language. The boys areinstructed in wood-working, carpentry, copper-working, and other linesof employment. We saw some of the girls making hair nets, and otherswere engaged in making lace. Both of these products are sent out ofPalestine for sale. The institution has received help from some of theRothschild family, and I have no doubt that it is a great factor for theimprovement of those who are reached by it. Jerusalem is well suppliedwith hospitals and schools. The Greek and Roman Catholic churches, theChurch of England, and numerous other religious bodies have a footinghere, and are striving to make it stronger. Their schools and hospitalsare made use of as missionary agencies, and besides these there is aTurkish hospital and numerous Mohammedan schools.On Friday I had an opportunity to see a man measuring grain, as isindicated by the Savior's words: "Give, and it shall be given unto you;good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, shall theygive into your bosom. For with what measure ye mete, it shall bemeasured to you again" (Luke 6:38). He filled his measure about full,and then shook it down thoroughly. He next filled it up and shook itdown until he evidently thought he had all he could get that way, so hecommenced to pile it up on top. When he had about as much heaped up aswould stay on, he put his hands on the side of the cone opposite himselfand gently pulled it toward him. He then piled some more on the farside, and when he had reached the limit in this way, he carefullyleveled the top of the cone down a little, and when he could no longerput on more grain, he gently lifted the measure and moved it around tothe proper place, where it was quickly dumped. In the evening Mr. Smithand I walked out on Mount Scopus, where Titus had his camp at the timeof the siege and destruction of Jerusalem, as foretold by our Lord andMaster in the twenty-fourth of Matthew.As we went along, Mr. Smith pointed out the watershed between theMediterranean and the Dead Sea. The view from Scopus is very extensive.We could look away to the north to Nebi Samwil, where the Prophet Samuelis supposed by some to have been buried. Ramallah, the seat of a schoolmaintained by the Society of Friends, is pointed out, along with Bireh,Bethel, and Geba. Nob, the home of the priests slain by command of Saul(1 Samuel 22:16), and Anathoth, one of the cities of refuge (Joshua21:18), are in sight. Swinging on around the circle to the east, thenorthern end of the Dead Sea is visible, while the Mount of Olives isonly a little distance below us. Across the valley of the Kidron liesthe Holy City, with her walls constructed at various periods and undervarious circumstances, her dome-shaped stone roofs, synagogues, mosques,and minarets, being "trodden down of the Gentiles, until the times ofthe Gentiles be fulfilled" (Luke 21:24). Here, with this panorama spreadout in the evening light, I may say my sight-seeing in the City of theGreat King came to an end.I lacked but a few hours of having been in the city two weeks, when Iboarded the train for Jaffa on my way to Egypt. The most of the time Ihad lodged in the hospitable home of Mr. Smith, where I had a cleanand comfortable place to rest my tired body when the shadows of nightcovered the land. I had received kind treatment, and had seen manythings of much interest. I am truly thankful that I have been permittedto make this trip to Jerusalem. Let me so live that when the fewfleeting days of this life are over, I may rest with the redeemed. Whendays and years are no more, let me enjoy, in the NEW JERUSALEM, theblessedness that remains for those that have loved the Lord."And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven fromGod, made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a greatvoice out of the throne saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is withmen, and he shall dwell with them, and they shall be his peoples, andGod himself shall be with them, and be their God: and he shall wipe awayevery tear from their eyes; and death shall be no more; neither shallthere be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, any more: the first things havepassed away" (Revelation 21:2-4).CHAPTER VI.SIDE TRIPS FROM JERUSALEM.Early on Tuesday morning, the eleventh of October, I set out bycarriage, with some other tourists, for a trip to Bethlehem, Solomon'sPools, and Hebron. Bethlehem is about five miles south of Jerusalem, andHebron is a little southwest of the Holy City and twenty miles distant.We started from the Jaffa gate and passed the Sultan's Pool, otherwiseknown as Lower Gihon, which may be the "lower pool" of Isaiah 22:9. "Theentire area of this pool," says one writer, "is about three and a halfacres, with an average depth, when clear of deposit, of forty-two anda half feet in the middle from end to end." We drove for two miles, orperhaps more, across the Plain of Rephaim, one of David's battlefieldssoon after he established himself in Jerusalem. Here he was twicevictorious over the Philistines. In the first instance he asked Jehovah:"Shall I go up against the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them intomy hand?" The answer was: "Go up; for I will certainly deliver thePhilistines into thy hand." In this battle the invaders were routed anddriven from the field. "And they left their images there; and David andhis men took them away." But "the Philistines came up yet again, andspread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. And when David inquired ofJehovah, he said, Thou shalt not go up: make a circuit behind them, andcome upon them over against the mulberry trees. And it shall be, whenthou hearest the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry trees,that then thou shalt bestir thyself, for then is Jehovah gone out beforethee to smite the hosts of the Philistines." David obeyed the voice ofthe Lord, and smote his enemies from Geba to Gezer. (2 Samuel 5:17-25.)On the southern border of the plain stands the Greek convent called MarElyas. This is about half way to Bethlehem, and the city of the nativitysoon comes into view. Before going much farther the traveler sees awell-built village, named Bet Jala, lying on his right. It is supposedto be the ancient Giloh, mentioned in 2 Samuel 15:12 as the home ofAhithophel, David's counselor, for whom Absalom sent when he conspiredagainst his father. Here the road forks, one branch of it passing BetJala and going on to Hebron; the other, bearing off to the left, leadsdirectly to Bethlehem, which we passed, intending to stop there as wereturned in the evening. At this place we saw the monument erected tomark the location of Rachel's tomb, a location, like many others, indispute. When Jacob "journeyed from Bethel and there was still somedistance to come to Ephrath," Rachel died at the birth of Benjamin, "andwas buried in the way to Ephrath (the same is Bethlehem). * * * AndJacob set up a pillar upon her grave" (Gen. 35:16-20). The spot, whichfor many centuries was marked by a pyramid of stones, is now occupiedby a small stone building with a dome-shaped roof, at the east side ofwhich is a room, open on the north, with a flat roof. For hundreds ofyears tradition has located the grave at this place, which is indeednear Bethlehem, but in 1 Samuel 10:2 it is mentioned as being "in theborder of Benjamin," which has occasioned the belief that the truelocation is some miles farther north.Before long we came to Solomon's Pools. We first stopped at a doorway,which looks like it might lead down to a cellar, but in reality the dooris at the head of a flight of stairs leading down to what is known asthe "sealed fountain" (Song of Solomon 4:12). The door was fastened,and we were not able to descend to the underground chamber, which isforty-one feet long, eleven and a half feet wide, with an arched stoneroof, all of which, except the entrance, is below the surface. A largebasin cut in the floor collects the water from two springs. After risinga foot in the basin, the water flows out into a channel more than sixhundred feet long leading down to the two upper pools. These greatreservoirs, bearing the name of Israel's wisest monarch, are still in agood state of preservation, having been repaired in modern times.The first one is three hundred and eighty feet long, two hundred andtwenty-nine feet wide at one end, two hundred and thirty feet wide atthe other, and twenty-five feet deep. The second pool is four hundredand twenty-three feet long, one hundred and sixty feet wide at the upperend, two hundred and fifty feet wide at the lower end, and thirty-ninefeet deep at that end. The third pool is the largest of all, having alength of five hundred and eighty-two feet. The upper end is one hundredand forty-eight feet wide, the lower end two hundred and seven feet,and the depth at the lower end is fifty feet. The pools are about onehundred and fifty feet apart, and have an aggregate area of six and aquarter acres, with an average depth approaching thirty-eight feet. Theupper two received water from the sealed fountain, but the lower one wassupplied from an aqueduct leading up from a point more than three milesto the south. The aqueduct from the sealed fountain leads past thepools, and winds around the hills to Bethlehem and on to the TempleArea, in Jerusalem. It is still in use as far as Bethlehem, and could beput in repair and made serviceable for the whole distance. An offerto do this was foolishly rejected by the Moslems in 1870. The onlyhabitation near the pools is an old khan, "intended as a stopping placefor caravans and as a station for soldiers to guard the road and thepools." The two upper pools were empty when I saw them, but the thirdone contained some water and a great number of frogs. As we went on toHebron we got a drink at "Philip's Well," the place where "the eunuchwas baptized," according to a tradition which lacks support by thepresent appearance of the place.Towards noon we entered the "valley of Eschol," from whence the spiessent out by Moses carried the great cluster of grapes. (Num. 13:23.)Before entering Hebron we turned aside and went up to Abraham's Oak, avery old tree, but not old enough for Abraham to have enjoyed itsshade almost four thousand years ago. The trunk is thirty-two feet incircumference, but the tree is not tall like the American oaks. It isnow in a dying condition, and some of the branches are supported byprops, while the lower part of the trunk is surrounded by a stone wall,and the space inside is filled with earth. The plot of ground on whichthe tree stands is surrounded by a high iron fence. A little farther upthe hill the Russians have a tower, from which we viewed the country,and then went down in the shade near Abraham's Oak and enjoyed ourdinner.Hebron is a very ancient city, having been built seven and a half yearsbefore Zoar in Egypt. (Num. 13:22.) Since 1187 it has been under thecontrol of the Mohammedans, who raise large quantities of grapes, manyof which are made into raisins. Articles of glass are made in Hebron,but I saw nothing especially beautiful in this line. The manufacture ofgoat-skin water-bottles is also carried on. Another line of work which Isaw being done is the manufacture of a kind of tile, which looks like afruit jug without a bottom, and is used in building. Hebron was one ofthe six cities of refuge (Joshua 20:7), and for seven years and a halfit was David's capital of Judah. It is very historic. "Abraham moved histent, and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, andbuilt there an altar unto Jehovah." (Gen. 13:18.) When "Sarah died inKiriath-arba (the same is Hebron), in the land of Canaan, * * * Abrahamcame to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her." At this time the worthyprogenitor of the Hebrew race "rose up from before his dead, and spokeunto the children of Heth, saying, I am a stranger and a sojourner withyou: give me a possession of a burying-place with you, that I may burymy dead out of my sight." The burial place was purchased for "fourhundred shekels of silver, current money of the land. * * * And afterthis Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave in the field of Machpelahbefore Mamre (the same is Hebron), in the land of Canaan" (Gen.23:1-20). Years after this, when both Abraham and his son Isaac hadpassed the way of all the earth and had been laid to rest in this cave,the patriarch Jacob in Egypt gave directions for the entombment of hisbody in this family burial place. "There they buried Abraham and Sarahhis wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there Iburied Leah" (Gen. 49:31), and here, by his own request, Jacob wasburied. (Gen. 50:13.) Joshua, the successor of Moses, "utterlydestroyed" Hebron (Joshua 10:37), and afterwards gave it to Caleb, towhom it had been promised by Moses forty-five years before. (Joshua14:6-15.) Here Abner was slain (2 Samuel 3:27), and the murderers ofIshbosheth were put to death. (2 Samuel 4:12.)The most interesting thing about the town is the "cave of Machpelah,"but it is inaccessible to Christians. Between 1167 and 1187 a church wasbuilt on the site, now marked by a carefully guarded Mohammedan mosque.It is inclosed by a wall which may have been built by Solomon. We wereallowed to go in at the foot of a stairway as far as the seventh step,but might as well have been in the National Capitol at Washington so faras seeing the burial place was concerned. In 1862 the Prince of Wales,now King of England, was admitted. He was accompanied by Dean Stanley,who has described what he saw, but he was permitted neither to examinethe monuments nor to descend to the cave below, the real burial chamber.As the body of Jacob was carefully embalmed by the Egyptian method, itis possible that his remains may yet be seen in their long resting placein this Hebron cave. (Gen. 50:1,2.)Turning back toward Jerusalem, we came to Bethlehem late in theafternoon, and the "field of the shepherds" (Luke 2:8) and the "fieldsof Boaz" (Ruth 2:4-23) were pointed out. The place of greatest interestis the group of buildings, composed of two churches, Greek and Latin,and an Armenian convent, all built together on the traditional siteof the birth of the Lord Jesus. Tradition is here contradicted byauthorities partly on the ground that a cave to which entrance is madeby a flight of stairs would probably not be used as a stable. Thiscave is in the Church of St. Mary, said to have been erected in 330 byConstantine. Descending the stairs, we came into the small cavern, whichis continually lighted by fifteen silver lamps, the property of theGreeks, Latins, and Armenians, who each have an interest in the place.Beneath an altar, in a semi-circular recess, a silver star has been setin the floor with the Latin inscription: "_Hic de Virgine Maria JesusChristus Natus est._" An armed Turkish soldier was doing duty near this"star of Bethlehem" the evening I was there. The well, from which it issaid the "three mighty men" drew water for David, was visited. (2 Samuel23:15.) But the shades of night had settled down upon the little townwhere our Savior was born, and we again entered our carriages and droveback to Jerusalem, having had a fine day of interesting sight-seeing. Onthe Wednesday before I left Jerusalem, in the company of Mrs. Bates, Iagain visited Bethlehem.Thursday, October thirteenth, was the day we went down to Jericho, theDead Sea, and the Jordan. The party was made up of the writer, Mr.Ahmed, Mr. Jennings, Mrs. Bates, four school teachers (three ladies anda gentleman) returning from the Philippines, and the guides, Mr. Smithand Ephraim Aboosh. We went in two carriages driven by natives. "Acertain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho; and he fell amongrobbers, who stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him halfdead" (Luke 10:30). This lonely road is still the scene of occasionalrobberies, and the Turkish Government permits one of its soldiers toaccompany the tourist for a fee, but we did not want to take thisescort, as neither of the guides feared any danger. Accordingly we tookan early start without notifying the soldiers, and reached Jericho,about twenty miles away, in time to visit Elisha's Fountain beforedinner. The road leads out past Bethany, down by the Apostles' Fountain,on past the Khan of the Good Samaritan, and down the mountain to theplain of the Jordan, this section of which is ten miles long and sevenmiles wide. Before the road reaches the plain, it runs along a deepgorge bearing the name Wady Kelt, the Brook Cherith, where the prophetElisha was fed by the ravens night and morning till the brook dried up.(1 Kings 17:1-7.) We also saw the remains of an old aqueduct, and of areservoir which was originally over five hundred feet long and more thanfour hundred feet wide. Elisha's Fountain is a beautiful spring somedistance from the present Jericho. Doubtless it is the very spring whosewaters Elisha healed with salt. (2 Kings 2:19-22.) The ground aboutthe Fountain has been altered some in modern times, and there is now abeautiful pool of good, clear water, a delight both to the eye and tothe throat of the dusty traveler who has come down from Jerusalem seeingonly the brown earth and white, chalky rock, upon which the unveiled sunhas been pouring down his heat for hours. The water from the spring nowruns a little grist mill a short distance below it.After dinner, eaten in front of the hotel in Jericho, we drove over tothe Dead Sea, a distance of several miles, and soon we were all enjoyinga fine bath in the salt water, the women bathing at one place, the menat another. The water contains so much solid matter, nearly three and athird pounds to the gallon, that it is easy to float on the surface withhands, feet and head above the water. One who can swim but little infresh water will find the buoyancy of the water here so great as to makeswimming easy. When one stands erect in it, the body sinks down aboutas far as the top of the shoulders. Care needs to be taken to keep thewater out of the mouth, nose and eyes, as it is so salty that it is verydisagreeable to these tender surfaces. Dead Sea water is two and a halfpounds heavier than fresh water, and among other things, it containsnearly two pounds of chloride of magnesium, and almost a pound ofchloride of sodium, or common salt, to the gallon. Nothing but some verylow forms of animal life, unobserved by the ordinary traveler, can livein this sea. The fish that get into it from the Jordan soon die. Thosewho bathe here usually drive over to the Jordan and bathe again, toremove the salt and other substances that remain on the body after thefirst bath. The greatest depth of the Dead Sea is a little over thirteenhundred feet. The wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah stood here someplace, but authorities disagree as to whether they were at the northernor southern end of the sea. In either case every trace of them has beenwiped out by the awful destruction poured on them by the Almighty. (Gen.18:16 to 19:29)The Jordan where we saw it, near the mouth, and at the time we saw it,the thirteenth of October, was a quiet and peaceful stream, but thewater was somewhat muddy. We entered two little boats and had a shortride on the river whose waters "stood, and rose up in one heap, a greatway off," that the children of Israel might cross (Joshua 3:14-17), andbeneath whose wave the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ was baptized by thegreat prophet of the Judaean wilderness. (Matt. 3:13-17.) We also gotout a little while on the east bank of the stream, the only time I was"beyond Jordan" while in Palestine. After supper, eaten in Jericho, wewent around to a Bedouin encampment, where a dance was being executed--adance different from any that I had ever seen before. One of thedancers, with a sword in hand, stood in the center of the ground theywere using, while the others stood in two rows, forming a right angle.They went through with various motions and hand-clapping, accompaniedby an indescribable noise at times. Some of the Bedouins were sittingaround a small fire at one side, and some of the children were having alittle entertainment of their own on another side of the dancing party.We were soon satisfied, and made our way back to the hotel and laid downto rest.The first Jericho was a walled city about two miles from the presentvillage, perhaps at the spring already mentioned, and was the first citytaken in the conquest of the land under Joshua. The Jordan was crossedat Gilgal (Joshua 4:19), where the people were circumcised with knivesof flint, and where the Jews made their first encampment west of theriver. (Joshua 5:2-10.) "Jericho was straitly shut up because of thechildren of Israel," but by faithful compliance with the word of theLord the walls fell down. (Joshua 6:1-27.) "And Joshua charged them withan oath at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before Jehovah,that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho: with the loss of hisfirst-born shall he lay the foundation thereof, and with the loss of hisyoungest son shall he set up the gates of it." Regardless of this curse,we read that in the days of Ahab, who "did more to provoke Jehovah, theGod of Israel, to anger than all the kings of Israel that were beforehim, * * * did Hiel the Beth-elite build Jericho: he laid the foundationthereof with the loss of Abiram his first-born, and set up the gatesthereof with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the wordof Jehovah, which he spake by Joshua the son of Nun" (1 Kings 16:33,34)."The Jericho * * * which was visited by Jesus occupied a still differentsite," says Bro. McGarvey. The present Jericho is a small Arab village,poorly built, with a few exceptions, and having nothing beautiful in oraround it but the large oleanders that grow in the ground made moist bywater from Elisha's Fountain. We had satisfactory accommodations at thehotel, which is one of the few good houses there. Jericho in the time ofour Lord was the home of a rich publican named Zaccheus (Luke 19:1-10),and was an important and wealthy city, that had been fortified by Herodthe Great, who constructed splendid palaces here, and it was here that"this infamous tyrant died." The original Jericho, the home of Rahab theharlot, was called the "city of palm trees" (Deut. 34:3), but if themodern representative of that ancient city has any of these trees, theyare few in number. Across the Jordan eastward are the mountains of Moab,in one of which Moses died after having delivered his valedictory, asrecorded in Deuteronomy. (Deut. 34:1-12.) From a lofty peak the Lordshowed this great leader and law-giver a panorama of "all the land ofGilead unto Dan. * * * And Jehovah said unto him, This is the land whichI sware unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, saying, I will give itunto thy seed: I have caused thee to see it with thine eyes, but thoushalt not go over thither. So Moses the servant of Jehovah died there inthe land of Moab, according to the word of Jehovah. And he buried himin the valley in the land of Moab, over against Beth-peor: but no manknoweth of his sepulchre unto this day."Early Wednesday morning we began our toilsome journey back to Jerusalem,having nearly four thousand feet to climb in the twenty milesintervening. We stopped awhile at the Khan of the Good Samaritan, whichstands near some old ruins, and may not be far from the place to whichthe Good Samaritan carried his poor, wounded fellow-man so long ago.Here I bought some lamps that look old enough, but may be quite modernimitations of the kind that were carried in the days of the wise andfoolish virgins. A stop was also made at the Apostles' Fountain, nearBethany, where I saw an Arab working bread on his coat, which was spreadon the ground. Over by the Damascus gate I one day saw a man feeding hiscamel on his coat, so these coarse cloth garments are very serviceableindeed. We got back to Jerusalem in time to do a good deal ofsight-seeing in the afternoon.The following Tuesday was occupied with a trip on "donkey-back" to NebiSamwil, Emmaus, Abu Ghosh, and Ain Kairim. Our party was small thistime, being composed of Mr. Jennings, Mr. Smith, the writer, and a"donkey-boy" to care for the three animals we rode, when we dismountedto make observations. He was liberal, and sometimes tried to tell uswhich way to go. We went out on the north side of the city and came tothe extensive burial places called the "Tombs of the Judges." Near by isan ancient wine press cut in the rock near a rock-hewn cistern, whichmay have been used for storing the wine. En Nebi Samwil is on anelevation a little more than three thousand feet above the sea and aboutfour hundred feet higher than Jerusalem, five miles distant. From thetop of the minaret we had a fine view through a field glass, seeing thecountry for many miles around. This is thought by some to be the Mizpahof the Bible (1 Kings 15:22), and tradition has it that the prophetSamuel was buried here. A little north of Nebi Samwil is the site ofancient Gibeon, where "Abner was beaten, and the men of Israel, beforethe servants of David" (2 Samuel 2:12-17).We next rode over to El Kubebeh, supposed by some to be the Emmaus ofNew Testament times, where Jesus went after his resurrection and sat atmeat with his disciples without being recognized. (Luke 24:13-25.) Theplace has little to attract one. A modern building, which I took to bethe residence of some wealthy person, occupies a prominent position, andis surrounded by well-kept grounds, inclosed with a wall. The Franciscanmonastery is a good sized institution, having on its grounds the remainsof a church of the Crusaders' period, over which a new and attractivebuilding has been erected. One section of it has the most beautifulfloor of polished marble, laid in patterns, that I have ever seen. Italso contains a painting of the Savior and the two disciples.We went outside of the monastery to eat our noon-day lunch, but beforewe finished, one of the monks came and called us in to a meal attheir table. It was a good meal, for which no charge was made, and Iunderstand it is their custom to give free meals to visitors, for theybelieve that Jesus here sat at meat with his two disciples. We enjoyedtheir hospitality, but drank none of the wine that was placed before us.Our next point was Abu Ghosh, named for an old village sheik who, "withhis six brothers and eighty-five descendants, was the terror of thewhole country" about a century ago. Our object in visiting the spot wasto see the old Crusaders' church, the best preserved one in Palestine.The stone walls are perhaps seven or eight feet thick. The roof is stillpreserved, and traces of the painting that originally adorned the wallsare yet to be seen. A new addition has been erected at one end, and theold church may soon be put in repair.The last place we visited before returning to Jerusalem was Ain Kairim,a town occupied mainly by the Mohammedans, and said to have been thehome of that worthy couple of whom it was written: "They were bothrighteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances ofthe Lord blameless" (Luke 1:6). The portion occupied by the Latins andGreeks is very beautifully situated on the side of the mountain. Thestone houses, "whited walls," and green cypresses make quite a prettypicture. The Church of St. John, according to tradition, stands on thespot where once dwelt Zacharias and Elizabeth, the parents of John, thegreat forerunner of Jesus. Night came upon us before we got back to ourstarting place, and as this was my first day of donkey riding, I wasvery much fatigued when I finally dismounted in Jerusalem; yet I arosethe next morning feeling reasonably well, but not craving another donkeyride over a rough country beneath the hot sun.On Saturday, the twenty-second of October, I turned away from Jerusalem,having been in and around the place almost two weeks, and went back toJaffa by rail. After a few miles the railway leads past Bittir, supposedto be the Beth-arabah of Joshua 15:61. It is also of interest from thefact that it played a part in the famous insurrection of Bar Cochbaagainst the Romans. In A.D. 135 it was captured by a Roman force aftera siege of three and a half years. Ramleh, a point twelve miles fromJaffa, was once occupied by Napoleon. Lydda, supposed to be the Lod ofEzra 2:33, was passed. Here Peter healed Aeneas, who had been palsiedeight years. (Acts 9:32-35.)Jaffa is the Joppa of the Bible, and has a good deal of interestinghistory. When "Jonah rose to flee unto Tarshish from the presence ofJehovah," he "went down to Joppa and found a ship going unto Tarshish:so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them toTarshish from the presence of Jehovah." (Jonah 1:3.) His unpleasantexperience with the great fish is well known. When Solomon was about tobuild the first temple, Hiram sent a communication to him, saying: "Wewill cut wood out of Lebanon as much as thou shalt need; and will bringit to thee in floats by sea to Joppa; and thou shalt carry it up toJerusalem" (2 Chron. 2:16). In the days of Ezra, when Zerubbabelrepaired the temple, we read that "they gave money also unto the masons,and to the carpenters; and food, and drink, and oil, unto them of Sidon,and to them of Tyre, to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea, untoJoppa, according to the grant that they had of Cyrus king of Persia"(Ezra 3:7). It was the home of "a certain disciple named Tabitha," whomPeter was called from Lydda to raise from the dead. (Acts 9:36-43.)Simon the tanner also lived in Joppa, and it was at his house that Peterhad his impressive vision of the sheet let down from heaven prior to hisgoing to Caesarea to speak the word of salvation to Cornelius and hisfriends. (Acts 10:1-6.)The city is built on a rocky elevation rising one hundred feet abovethe sea, which has no harbor here, so that vessels do not stop when thewater is too rough for passengers to be carried safely in small boats.Extensive orange groves are cultivated around Jaffa, and lemons are alsogrown, and I purchased six for a little more than a cent in Americanmoney. Sesame, wine, wool, and soap are exported, and the imports areconsiderable. The train reached the station about the middle of the day,and the ship did not leave till night, so I had ample time to visit the"house of Simon the tanner." It is "by the sea side" all right, butlooks too modern to be impressive to the traveler who does not acceptall that tradition says. I paid Cook's tourist agency the equivalent ofa dollar to take me through the custom house and out to the ship, and Ido not regret spending the money, although it was five times as much asI had paid the native boatman for taking me ashore when I first came toJaffa. The sea was rough--very rough for me--and a little woman at myside was shaking with nervousness, although she tried to be brave, andher little boy took a firm hold on my clothing. I don't think that I wasscared, but I confess that I did not enjoy the motion of the boat as itwent sliding down from the crest of the waves, which were higher thanany I had previously ridden upon in a rowboat. As darkness had come, itwould have been a poor time to be upset, but we reached the vessel insafety. When we came alongside the ship, a boatman on each side of thepassenger simply pitched or threw him up on the stairs when the risingwave lifted the little boat to the highest point. It was easily done,but it is an experience one need not care to repeat unnecessarily.I was now through with my sight-seeing in the Holy Land and aboard theAustrian ship _Maria Teresa_, which was to carry me to the land of theancient Pharaohs. Like Jonah, I had paid my fare, so I laid down tosleep. There was a rain in the night, but no one proposed to throw meoverboard, and we reached Port Said, at the mouth of the Suez Canal, thenext day.CHAPTER VII.EGYPT, THE LAND OF TOMBS AND TEMPLES.The _Maria Teresa_ landed me in Port Said, Egypt, Lord's day, Octobertwenty-third, and at seven o'clock that evening I took the train forCairo, arriving there about four hours later. I had no difficulty infinding a hotel, where I took some rest, but was out very early the nextmorning to see something of the largest city in Africa. The populationis a great mixture of French, Greeks, English, Austrians, Germans,Egyptians, Arabians, Copts, Berbers, Turks, Jews, Negroes, Syrians,Persians, and others. In Smyrna, Damascus, and Jerusalem, cities of theTurkish empire, the streets are narrow, crooked, and dirty, but hereare many fine buildings, electric lights, electric cars, and good, widestreets, over which vehicles with rubber tires roll noiselessly.I first went out to the Mokattam Heights, lying back of the city, at anelevation of six hundred and fifty feet. From the summit an extensiveview can be obtained, embracing not only the city of Cairo, with itsmany mosques and minarets, but the river beyond, and still fartherbeyond the Gizeh (Gezer) group of the pyramids. The side of the Heightstoward the city is a vast quarry, from which large quantities of rockhave been taken. An old fort and a mosque stand in solitude on the top.I went out by the citadel and passed the mosque tombs of the Mamelukes,who were originally brought into the country from the Caucasus asslaves, but they became sufficiently powerful to make one of theirnumber Sultan in 1254. The tombs of the Caliphs, successors of Mohammedin temporal and spiritual power, are not far from the Heights.As I was returning to the city, a laborer followed me a little distance,and indicated that he wanted my name written on a piece of paper he wascarrying. I accommodated him, but do not know for what purpose he wantedit. I stopped at the Alabaster Mosque, built after the fashion of one ofthe mosques of Constantinople, and decorated with alabaster. The outsideis full of little depressions, and has no special beauty, but the insideis more attractive. The entrance is through a large court, paved withsquares of white marble. The floor of the mosque was nicely covered withcarpet, and the walls are coated for a few feet with alabaster, andabove that they are painted in imitation of the same material. Thenumerous lamps do much towards making the place attractive. Theattendant said the central chandelier, fitted for three hundred andsixty-six candles, was a present from Louis Philippe, of France. A clockis also shown that came from the same source. The pulpit is a platformat the head of a stairway, and the place for reading the Koran is asmall platform three or four feet high, also ascended by steps. Withinan inclosure in one corner of the building is the tomb of Mohammed Ali,which, I was told, was visited by the Khedive the day before I wasthere.The most interesting part of the day was the afternoon trip to the ninepyramids of the Gizeh group. They may be reached by a drive over theexcellent carriage road that leads out to them, or by taking one of theelectric cars that run along by this road. Three of the pyramids arelarge and the others are small, but one, the pyramid of Cheops, is builton such magnificent proportions that it is called "the great pyramid."According to Baedeker, "the length of each side is now seven hundred andfifty feet, but was formerly about seven hundred and sixty-eight feet;the present perpendicular height is four hundred and fifty-one feet,while originally, including the nucleus of the rock at the bottom andthe apex, which has now disappeared, it is said to have been fourhundred and eighty-two feet. * * * In round numbers, the stupendousstructure covers an area of nearly thirteen acres."It is estimated that two million three hundred thousand blocks of stone,each containing forty cubic feet, were required for building thisancient and wonderful monument, upon which a hundred thousand men aresaid to have been employed for twenty years. Nearly all of the materialwas brought across from the east side of the Nile, but the granite thatentered into its construction was brought down from Syene, near Assouan,five hundred miles distant. Two chambers are shown to visitors, one ofthem containing an empty stone coffin. The passageway leading to thesechambers is not easily traversed, as it runs at an angle like a stairwaywith no steps, for the old footholds have become so nearly worn out thatthe tourist might slip and slide to the bottom were it not for hisArab helpers. A fee of one dollar secures the right to walk about thegrounds, ascend the pyramid, and go down inside of it. Three Arabs gowith the ticket, and two of them are really needed. Those who wentwith me performed their work in a satisfactory manner, and while notpermitted to ask for "backshish," they let me know that they wouldaccept anything I might have for them. The ascent was rather difficult,as some of the stones are more than a yard high. It is estimated thatthis mighty monument, which Abraham may have looked upon, containsenough stone to build a wall around the frontier of France. Of the SevenWonders of the World, the Pyramid of Cheops alone remains. The otherattractions here are the Granite Temple, and some tombs, from one ofwhich a jackal ran away as we were approaching. I got back to Cairoafter dark, and took the eight o'clock train for Assouan.This place is about seven hundred miles from Port Said by rail, and isa good sized town. The main street, fronting the river, presentsa pleasing appearance with its hotels, Cook's tourist office, thepostoffice, and other buildings. Gas and electricity are used forlighting, and the dust in the streets is laid by a real streetsprinkler, and not by throwing the water on from a leathern bag, as Isaw it in Damascus. The Cataract Hotel is a large place for tourists,with a capacity of three hundred and fifty people. The Savoy Hotel isbeautifully located on Elephantine Island, in front of the town. Tothe south of the town lie the ancient granite quarries of Syene, whichfurnished the Egyptian workmen building material so long ago, and stilllack a great deal of being exhausted. I saw an obelisk lying here whichis said to be ninety-two feet long and ten and a half feet wide in thebroadest part, but both ends of it were covered. In this section thereis an English cemetery inclosed by a wall, and several tombs of thenatives, those of the sheiks being prominent.Farther to the south is a great modern work, the Nile dam, a mile and aquarter long, and built of solid masonry. In the deepest place it is onehundred feet high, and the thickness at the bottom is eighty-eight feet.It was begun in 1899, and at one time upwards of ten thousand men wereemployed on the works. It seemed to be finished when I was there, but afew workmen were still engaged about the place. The total cost has beenestimated at a sum probably exceeding ten millions of dollars. There areone hundred and eighty sluices to regulate the out-flow of the water,which is collected to a height of sixty-five feet during the inundationof the Nile. The dam would have been made higher, but by so doing PhilaeIsland, a short distance up the river, would have been submerged.The remains on this island are so well preserved that it is almost amisnomer to call them ruins. The little island is only five hundredyards long and sixty yards wide, and contains the Temple of Isis, Templeof Hathor, a kiosk or pavilion, two colonnades, and a small Nilometer.In the gateway to one of the temples is a French inscription concerningNapoleon's campaign in Egypt in 1799. All the buildings are of stone,and the outside walls are covered with figures and inscriptions. Some ofthe figures are just cut in the rough, never having been finished. Here,as elsewhere in Egypt, very delicate carvings are preserved almost asdistinct as though done but recently. The guard on the island was notgoing to let me see the ruins because I held no ticket. After a littledelay, a small boat, carrying some diplomatic officers, came up. Thesegentlemen, one of whom was a Russian, I think, tried to get the guard tolet me see the place with them, but he hesitated, and required them togive him a paper stating that I was there with them. Later, when I gotto the place where the tickets were sold, I learned that Philae Islandwas open for visitors without a ticket. Perhaps the guard thought hewould get some "backshish" from me.I made an interesting visit to the Bisharin village, just outside ofAssouan, and near the railroad. The inhabitants are very dark-skinned,and live in booths or tents, covered with something like straw matting.I stopped at one of the lodges, which was probably six feet wide andeight feet long, and high enough to enable the occupants to sit erect onthe floor. An old man, naked from the waist up, was sitting outside. Ayoung woman was operating a small hand mill, and one or two other womenwere sitting there on the ground. They showed me some long strings ofbeads, and I made a purchase at a low price. While at this lodge, for Ican not call it a house, and it is not altogether like a tent, abouta dozen of the native children gathered around me, and one, who couldspeak some English, endeavored to draw out part of my cash by repeatingthis speech: "Half a piaster, Mister; thank you very much." The girlshad their hair in small plaits, which seemed to be well waxed together.One of the boys, about ten years of age, clothed in a peculiar manner,was finely formed, and made a favorable impression on my mind. I wouldlike to see what could be made of him if he were taken entirely awayfrom his unfavorable surroundings and brought up with the care andattention that many American boys receive. He and another lad went withme to see the obelisk in the granite quarry, and I tried to teach themto say: "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." As Iwas repeating the first word of the sentence and trying to induce one ofthem to follow me, he said, "No blessed," and I failed to get either ofthem to say these beautiful words. In Egypt and other countries thereare millions of persons just as ignorant of the gospel and just as muchin need of it as the curly-headed Bisharin lad who conducted me to thegranite quarry.I took a pleasant boat ride across the river, past the beautiful groundsof the Savoy Hotel, to the rock tombs of the great persons of ancientElephantine. I tarried a little too long at the tombs, or else did notstart soon enough, for darkness came upon us soon after leaving them.For some distance the boatman walked on the shore and towed the boatwith a long rope, while I tried to keep it off of the rocks with therudder. There was not enough wind to make the sail useful, and as wewere passing around the end of Elephantine Island we drifted againstthe rocks, but with no other loss than the loss of some time. It was mydesire to see the Nilometer on the island, and I did see it, but notuntil after I had sent the boatman to buy a candle. This ancientwater-gauge was repaired in 1870, after a thousand years of neglect.The following description by Strabo is taken from Baedeker's _Guide toEgypt_: "The Nilometer is a well, built of regular hewn stones, on thebank of the Nile, in which is recorded the rise of the stream--not onlythe maximum, but also the minimum, and average rise, for the water inthe well rises and falls with the stream. On the side of the well aremarks measuring the height for the irrigation and other water levels.These are published for general information. * * * This is of importanceto the peasants for the management of the water, the embankments, thecanals, etc., and to the officials on account of the taxes, for thehigher the rise of the water, the higher the taxes." It needs to besaid, however, that this "well" is not circular, but rectangular, andhas a flight of steps leading down to the water.On the way back to Cairo I stopped at Luxor, on the site of the ancientcity of Thebes. The chief attraction here is the Temple of Luxor, sixhundred and twenty-one feet long and one hundred and eighty feet wide.In recent times this temple was entirely buried, and a man told me heowned a house on the spot which he sold to the government for about fourhundred and fifty dollars, not knowing of the existence of a templeburied beneath his dwelling. Some of the original statues of Rameses II.remain in front of the ruins. I measured the right arm of one of thesefigures, from the pit where it touches the side to the same point infront, a distance of about six feet, and that does not represent theentire circumference, for the granite between the arm and the body wasnever entirely cut away. Near by stands a large red granite obelisk,with carvings from top to bottom. A companion to this one, for they werealways erected in pairs, has been removed. In ancient times a pavedstreet led from this temple to Karnak, which is reached by a short walk.This ancient street was adorned by a row of ram-headed sphinxes on eachside. Toward Karnak many of them are yet to be seen in a badly mutilatedcondition, but there is another avenue containing forty of these figuresin a good state of preservation.The first of the Karnak temples reached is one dedicated to the Thebanmoon god, Khons, reared by Rameses III. The Temple of Ammon, called "thethrone of the world," lies a little beyond. I spent half a day on thewest side of the river in what was the burial ground of ancient Thebes,where also numerous temples were erected. My first stop was before theruins of Kurna. The Temple of Sethos I. originally had ten columnsbefore it, but one is now out of place. The Temple Der el Bahri bore anEnglish name, signifying "most splendid of all," and it may not havebeen misnamed. It is situated at the base of a lofty barren cliff of ayellowish cast, and has been partially restored.In 1881 a French explorer discovered the mummies of several Egyptianrulers in an inner chamber of this temple, that had probably beenremoved to this place for security from robbers. In the number were theremains of Rameses II., who was probably reigning in the boyhood days ofMoses, and the mummy of Set II., perhaps the Pharaoh of the Oppression,and I saw both of them in the museum in Cairo.The Ramasseum is another large temple, built by Rameses II., who issaid to have had sixty-nine sons and seventy daughters. There are alsoextensive remains of another temple called Medinet Habu. About a half amile away from this ruin are the two colossal statues of Memnon,which were surrounded by water, so I could not get close to them. Thefollowing dimensions of one of them are given: "Height of the figure,fifty-two feet; height of the pedestal on which the feet rest, thirteenfeet; height of the entire monument, sixty-five feet. But when thefigure was adorned with the long-since vanished crown, the originalheight may have reached sixty-nine feet. * * * Each foot is ten andone-half feet long. * * * The middle finger on one hand is four and ahalf feet long, and the arm from the tip of the finger to the elbowmeasures fifteen and one-half feet."All about these temples are indications of ancient graves, from whichthe Arabs have dug the mummies. As I rode out, a boy wanted to sell me amummy hand, and another had the mummy of a bird. They may both have beencounterfeits made especially for unsuspecting tourists. There are alsoextensive rock-cut tombs of the ancient kings and queens, which arelighted by electricity in the tourist season. I did not visit them onaccount of the high price of admission. The government has very properlytaken charge of the antiquities, and a ticket is issued for six dollarsthat admits to all these ruins in Upper Egypt. Tickets for any oneparticular place were not sold last season, but tourists were allowed tovisit all places not inclosed without a ticket.While in Luxor I visited the American Mission Boarding School for Girls,conducted by Miss Buchanan, who was assisted by a Miss Gibson and fivenative teachers. A new building, with a capacity for four hundredboarders, was being erected at a cost of about thirty-five thousanddollars. This would be the finest building for girls in Egypt whenfinished, I was told, and most of the money for it had been given bytourists. I spent a night in Luxor, staying in the home of Youssef Said,a native connected with the mission work. His uncle, who could not speakEnglish, expressed himself as being glad to have "a preacher of JesusChrist" to stay in his house.Leaving Luxor, I returned to Cairo for some more sight-seeing, and I hada very interesting time of it. In Gen. 41:45 we read: "Pharaoh calledJoseph's name Zaphenath-paneah; and gave him to wife Asenath, thedaughter of Potipherah, priest of On." Heliopolis, meaning city of thesun, is another name for this place, from whence the wife of Josephcame. It is only a few miles from Cairo, and easily reached by railway.All that I saw of the old city was a lonely obelisk, "probably theoldest one in the world," standing in a cultivated field and surroundedby the growing crop. It is sixty-six feet high, six feet square at thebase, and is well preserved.The Ezbekiah Gardens are situated in the best portion of Cairo. Thisbeautiful park contains quite a variety of trees, including the banyan,and is a resort of many of the people. Band concerts are held, and asmall entrance fee is taken at the gate.On the thirtieth of the month I visited the Museum, which has beenmoved to the city and installed in its own commodious and substantialbuilding. This vast collection of relics of this wonderful old countryaffords great opportunities for study. I spent a good deal of time thereseeing the coffins of wood, white limestone, red granite, and alabaster;sacrificial tables, mummies, ancient paintings, weights and measures,bronze lamps, necklaces, stone and alabaster jars, bronze hinges,articles of pottery, and many other things. It is remarkable how someof the embalmed bodies, thousands of years old, are preserved. I lookeddown upon the Pharaoh who is supposed to have oppressed Israel. The bodyis well preserved, but it brought thoughts to me of the smallness of thefleshly side of man. He who once ruled in royal splendor now lies therein very humble silence. In some cases the cloths wrapped around thesemummies are preserved almost perfectly, and I remember a gilt mask thatwas so bright that one might have taken it for a modern product. Afterthe body was securely wrapped, a picture was sometimes painted over theface, and now, after the lapse of centuries, some of these are veryclear and distinct. I saw a collection of scarabaei, or beetles, whichwere anciently worshiped in this country. Dealers offer figures of thiskind for sale, but the most of them are probably manufactured for thetourist trade.On Lord's day, October thirtieth, I attended the evening services at theAmerican Mission, and went to Bedrashen the following day. This is thenearest railway station to Memphis, the ancient capital of Egypt, now anirregular pile of ruined mud bricks. I secured a donkey, and a boy tocare for it and tell me where to go. We soon passed the dilapidatedruins of the old capital. Two prostrate statues of great size were seenon the way to the Step Pyramid of Sakkara, which is peculiar in that itis built with great offsets or steps, still plainly visible, althoughlarge quantities of the rock have crumbled and fallen down. TheDepartment of Antiquities has posted a notice in French, Arabic andEnglish, to the effect that it is dangerous to make the ascent, and thatthe government will not be responsible for accidents to tourists whoundertake it. I soon reached the top without any special difficulty,and with no more danger, so far as I could see, than one experiencesin climbing a steep hill strewn with rocks. I entered another pyramid,which has a stone in one side of it twenty-five feet long and about fiveand a half feet high. Some more tombs were visited, and the delicatecarving on the inner walls was observed. In one instance a harvest scenewas represented, in another the fish in a net could be discerned. TheSerapeum is an underground burial place for the sacred bull, discoveredby Mariette in 1850, after having been buried since about 1400 B.C. Inthose times the bull was an object of worship in Egypt, and when onedied, he was carefully embalmed and put in a stone coffin in one of thechambers of the Serapeum. Some of these coffins are twelve feet high andfifteen feet long.Before leaving Cairo, I went into the famous Shepheard's Hotel, where Ireceived some information about the place from the manager, who lookedlike a well-salaried city pastor. The Grand Continental presents abetter appearance on the outside, but I do not believe it equalsShepheard's on the inside. I was now ready to turn towards home, so Idropped down to Port Said again, where there is little of interest tothe tourist except the ever-changing panorama of ships in the mouth ofthe Suez Canal, and the study of the social condition of the people. Mydelay in the city while waiting for a ship gave me a good deal oftime for writing and visiting the missionaries. The Seamen's Rest isconducted by Mr. Locke, who goes out in the harbor and gathers upsailors in his steam launch, and carries them back to their vesselsafter the service. One night, after speaking in one of these meetings, Irode out with him. The American Mission conducts a school for boys, andFeltus Hanna, the native superintendent, kindly showed me around. ThePeniel Mission is conducted by two American ladies. The British andForeign Bible Society has a depot here, and keeps three men at workvisiting ships in the harbor all the time. I attended the servicesin the chapel of the Church of England one morning. With all thesereligious forces the city is very wicked. The street in which my hotelwas located was largely given up to drinking and harlotry.On the ninth of November the French ship _Congo_ stopped in the harbor,and I went down late in the evening to embark, but the authorities wouldnot permit me to go aboard, because I had not been examined by themedical officer, who felt my pulse and signed a paper that was nevercalled for, and I went aboard all right. The ship stopped at Alexandria,and I went around in the city, seeing nothing of equal interest toPompey's Pillar, a monument standing ninety-eight feet and nine incheshigh. The main shaft is seventy-three feet high and nearly thirty feetin circumference. We reached Marseilles in the evening of Novembersixteenth, after experiencing some weather rough enough to make meuncomfortable, and several of the others were really seasick. I hadseveral hours in Paris, which was reached early the next day, and theUnited States consulate and the Louvre, the national museum of France,were visited. From Paris I went to London by way of Dieppe and NewHaven. I left summer weather in Egypt, and found that winter was on handin France and England. London was shrouded in a fog. I went back to myfriends at Twynholm, and made three addresses on Lord's day, and spokeagain on Monday night. I sailed from Liverpool for New York on the _SS.Cedric_ November twenty-third. We were in the harbor at Queenstown,Ireland, the next day, and came ashore at the New York custom house onthe second of December. The _Cedric_ was then the second largest ship inthe world, being seven hundred feet long and seventy-five feet broad.She carries a crew of three hundred and forty, and has a capacity forover three thousand passengers. On this trip she carried one thousandthree hundred and thirty-six, and the following twenty classes of peoplewere represented: Americans, English, French, German, Danes, Norwegians,Roumanians, Spanish, Arabs, Japanese, Negroes, Greeks, Russian Jews,Fins, Swedes, Austrians, Armenians, Poles, Irish, and Scotch. A greatstream of immigrants is continually pouring into the country at thispoint. Twelve thousand were reported as arriving in one day, and arecent paper contains a note to the effect that the number arriving inJune will exceed eighty thousand, as against fifty thousand in Juneof last year. "The character of the immigrants seems to grow steadilyworse."My traveling companion from Port Said to Marseilles and from Liverpoolto New York was Solomon Elia, who had kindly shown me through theIsraelite Alliance School in Jerusalem. I reached Philadelphia the sameday the ship landed in New York, but was detained there with brethrenon account of a case of quinsy. I reached home on the fourteenth ofDecember, after an absence of five months and three days, in whichtime I had seen something of fourteen foreign countries, having a veryenjoyable and profitable trip.CHAPTER VIII.GEOGRAPHY OF PALESTINE.This section of country has been known by several names. It has beencalled the "Land of Canaan," the "Land of Israel," the "Land ofPromise," the "Land of the Hebrews," and the "Holy Land." Canaan wassimply the country between the Mediterranean and the Jordan, extendingfrom Mt. Lebanon on the north to the Desert of Arabia on the south. Danwas in the extreme northern part, and Beer-sheba lay in the southern endof the country, one hundred and thirty-nine miles distant. The averagewidth of the land is about forty miles, and the total area is in theneighborhood of six thousand miles. "It is not in size or physicalcharacteristics proportioned to its moral and historical position as thetheater of the most momentous events in the world's history." Palestine,the land occupied by the twelve tribes, included the Land of Canaan anda section of country east of the Jordan one hundred miles long and abouttwenty-five miles wide, occupied by Reuben, Gad, and the half tribe ofManasseh. The Land of Promise was still more extensive, reachingfrom "the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates,"embracing about sixty thousand square miles, or a little less thanthe five New England States. The country is easily divided into fourparallel strips. Beginning at the Mediterranean, we have the MaritimePlain, the Mountain Region, the Jordan Valley, and the EasternTable-Land.The long stretch of lowland known as the Maritime Plain is dividedinto three sections. The portion lying north of Mt. Carmel was calledPhoenicia. It varies in width from half a mile in the north to eightmiles in the south. The ancient cities of Tyre and Sidon belonged tothis section. Directly east of Mt. Carmel is the Plain of Esdraelon,physically a part of the Maritime Plain. It is an irregular triangle,whose sides are fourteen, sixteen, and twenty-five miles respectively,the longest side being next to Mt. Carmel. Here Barak defeated the armyof Sisera under Jabin, and here Josiah, king of Judah, was killed in abattle with the Egyptians under Pharaoh-necoh.The Plains of Sharon and Philistia, lying south of Carmel, are usuallyregarded as the true Maritime Plain. Sharon extends southward fromCarmel about fifty miles, reaching a little below Jaffa, and has anaverage width of eight miles. The Zerka, or Crocodile river, whichtraverses this plain, is the largest stream of Palestine west of theJordan. There are several other streams crossing the plain from themountains to the sea, but they usually cease to flow in the summerseason. Joppa, Lydda, Ramleh, and Caesarea belong to this plain. Herodthe Great built Caesarea, and spent large sums of money on its palace,temple, theater, and breakwater.The Plain of Philistia extends thirty or forty miles from the southernlimits of Sharon to Gaza, varying in width from twelve to twenty-fivemiles. It is well watered by several streams, some of which flow all theyear. Part of the water from the mountains flows under the ground andrises in shallow lakes near the coast. Water can easily be found here,as also in Sharon, by digging wells, and the soil is suitable for theculture of small grains and for pasture. During a part of the year theplain is beautifully ornamented with a rich growth of brightly coloredflowers, a characteristic of Palestine in the wet season.Gaza figures in the history of Samson, who "laid hold of the doors ofthe gate of the city, and the two posts, and plucked them up, bar andall, and put them on his shoulders and carried them up to the top of themountain that is before Hebron." Ashkelon, on the coast, is connectedwith the history of the Crusades. Ashdod, or Azotus, is where Philip wasfound after the baptism of the eunuch. It is said that Psammetichus,an ancient Egyptian king, captured this place after a siege oftwenty-seven years. Ekron and Gath also belonged to this plain.The ridge of mountains lying between the coast plain and the Jordanvalley form the backbone of the country. Here, more than elsewhere,the Israelites made their homes, on account of the hostility of theinhabitants in the lowlands. This ridge is a continuation of the Lebanonrange, and extends as far south as the desert. In Upper Galilee themountains reach an average height of two thousand eight hundred feetabove sea level, but in Lower Galilee they are a thousand feet lower. InSamaria and Judaea they reach an altitude of two or three thousand feet.The foot-hills, called the Shefelah, and the Negeb, or "South Country,"complete the ridge. The highest peak is Jebel Mukhmeel, in NorthernPalestine, rising ten thousand two hundred feet above the sea. Mt.Tabor, in Galilee, is one thousand eight hundred and forty-three feethigh, while Gerizim and Ebal, down in Samaria, are two thousand eighthundred and fifty feet and three thousand and seventy-five feetrespectively. The principal mountains in Judaea are Mt. Zion, twothousand five hundred and fifty feet; Mt. Moriah, about one hundred feetlower; Mount of Olives, two thousand six hundred and sixty-five feet,and Mt. Hebron, three thousand and thirty feet. Nazareth, Shechem,Jerusalem, and Hebron belong to the Mountain Region.The Jordan Valley is the lowest portion of the earth's surface. No otherdepressions are more than three hundred feet below sea level, but theJordan is six hundred and eighty-two feet lower than the ocean at theSea of Galilee, and nearly thirteen hundred feet lower where it entersthe Dead Sea. This wonderful depression, which includes the Dead Sea,forty-five miles long, and the valley south of it, one hundred miles inlength, is two hundred and fifty miles long and from four to fourteenmiles in width, and is called the Arabah. The sources of the Jordanare one hundred and thirty-four miles from the mouth, but the numerouswindings of the stream make it two hundred miles long. The Jordanis formed by the union of three streams issuing from springs at anelevation of seventeen hundred feet above the sea. The principal sourceis the spring at Dan, one of the largest in the world, as it sends fortha stream twenty feet wide and from twenty to thirty inches deep. Thespring at Banias, the Caesarea Philippi of the Scriptures, is theeastern source. The Hashbany flows from a spring forming the westernsource. A few miles south of the union of the streams above mentionedthe river widens into the waters of Merom, a small lake nearly on alevel with the Mediterranean. In the next few miles it descends rapidly,and empties into the Sea of Galilee, called also the Sea of Chinnereth,Sea of Tiberias, and Lake of Gennesaret. In the sixty-five miles fromthe Sea of Galilee to the Dead Sea the fall is about six hundred feet.The rate of descent is not uniform throughout the whole course of theriver. In one section it drops sixty feet to the mile, while there isone stretch of thirteen miles with a descent of only four and a halffeet to the mile. The average is twenty-two feet to the mile. The widthvaries from eighty to one hundred and eighty feet, and the depth fromfive to twelve feet. Caesarea Philippi, at the head of the valley,Capernaum, Magdala, Tiberias, and Tarrichaea were cities on the Sea ofGalilee. Jericho and Gilgal were in the plain at the southern extremity,and Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, upon which the wrath of God waspoured, were somewhere in the region of the Dead Sea.The Eastern Table-Land has a mountain wall four thousand feet highfacing the river. This table-land, which is mostly fertile, extendseastward about twenty miles, and terminates in the Arabian Desert, whichis still higher. Here the mountains are higher and steeper than thosewest of the Jordan. Mt. Hermon, in the north, is nine thousand twohundred feet high. South of the Jarmuk River is Mt. Gilead, threethousand feet high, and Mt. Nebo, lying east of the northern end of theDead Sea, reaches an elevation of two thousand six hundred and seventyfeet. Besides the Jarmuk, another stream, the Jabbok, flows into theJordan from this side. The Arnon empties into the Dead Sea. The northernsection was called Bashan, the middle, Gilead, and the southern part,Moab. Bashan anciently had many cities, and numerous ruins yet remain.In the campaign of Israel against Og, king of Bashan, sixty citieswere captured. Many events occurred in Gilead, where were situatedJabesh-Gilead, Ramoth-Gilead, and the ten cities of the Decapolis, withthe exception of Beth-shean, which was west of the Jordan. From thesummit of Mt. Pisgah, a peak of Mt. Nebo, Moses viewed the Landof Promise, and from these same heights Balaam looked down on theIsraelites and undertook to curse them, Moab lies south of the Arnonand east of the Dead Sea. In the time of a famine, an Israelite, namedElimelech, with his wife and sons, sojourned in this land. After thedeath of Elimelech and both of his sons, who had married in the land,Naomi returned to Bethlehem, accompanied by her daughter-in-law, Ruth,the Moabitess, who came into the line of ancestry of David and of theLord Jesus Christ. Once, when the kings of Judah, Israel, and Edominvaded the land, the king of Moab (when they came to Kir-hareseth,the capital) took his oldest son, who would have succeeded him on thethrone, "and offered him for a burnt offering upon the wall." At thisthe invaders "departed from him and returned to their own land."The political geography of Palestine is so complicated that it can notbe handled in the space here available. Only a few words, applicableto the country in New Testament times, can be said. The provinces ofGalilee, Samaria, and Judaea were on the west side of the Jordan, whilethe Decapolis and Perea lay east of that river. The northern provinceof Galilee, which saw most of the ministry of Jesus, extended from theMediterranean to the Sea of Galilee, and a much greater distance fromthe north to the south. It was peopled with Jews, and was probably amuch better country than is generally supposed, as it contained a largenumber of cities and villages, and produced fish, oil, wheat, wine,figs, and flax. "It was in Christ's time one of the gardens of theworld--well watered, exceedingly fertile, thoroughly cultivated, andcovered with a dense population."--_Merrill_.Samaria, lying south of Galilee, extended from the Mediterranean to theJordan, and was occupied by a mixed race, formed by the mingling of Jewswith the foreigners who had been sent into the land. When they weredisfellowshiped by the Jews, about 460 B.C., they built a temple on Mt.Gerizim.The province of Judaea was the largest in Palestine, and extended fromthe Mediterranean on the west to the Dead Sea and the Jordan on theeast. It was bounded on the north by Samaria, and on the south by thedesert. Although but fifty-five miles long and about thirty miles wide,it held out against Egypt, Babylonia, and Rome.The Decapolis, or region of ten Gentile cities, was the northeasternpart of Palestine, extending eastward from the Jordan to the desert.Perea lay south of the Decapolis, and east of the Jordan and Dead Sea.The kingdom of Herod the Great, whose reign ended B.C. 4, includedall of this territory. After his death the country was divided intotetrarchies. Archelaus ruled over Judaea and Samaria; Antipas ("Herodthe tetrarch") had control of Galilee and Perea; Philip had a section ofcountry east of the Sea of Galilee, and Lysanius ruled over Abilene, asmall section of country between Mt. Hermon and Damascus, not includedin the domain of Herod the Great. Herod Agrippa was made king byCaligula, and his territory embraced all that his grandfather, Herod theGreat, had ruled over, with Abilene added, making his territory moreextensive than that of any Jewish king after Solomon. He is the "Herodthe king" who killed the Apostle James and imprisoned Peter. Afterdelivering an oration at Caesarea, he died a horrible death, "becausehe gave not God the glory." At his death, in A.D. 44, the country wasdivided into two provinces. The northern section was ruled by HerodAgrippa II. till the Jewish State was dissolved, in A.D. 70. He was the"King Agrippa" before whom Paul spoke. The southern part of the country,called the province of Judaea, was ruled by procurators having theirseat at Caesarea. When Jerusalem was destroyed in A.D. 70, the countrywas annexed to Syria.The climate depends more upon local conditions than on the latitude,which is the same as Southern Georgia and Alabama, Jerusalem being onthe parallel of Savannah. In point of temperature it is about the sameas these localities, but in other respects it differs much. The year hastwo seasons--the dry, lasting from the first of April to the first ofNovember, and the rainy season, lasting the other five months, duringwhich time there are copious rains. One authority says: "Were the oldcisterns cleaned and mended, and the beautiful tanks and aqueductsrepaired, the ordinary fall of rain would be quite sufficient for thewants of the inhabitants and for irrigation." The summers are hot, thewinters mild. Snow sometimes falls, but does not last long, and ice isseldom formed.Palestine is not a timbered country. The commonest oak is a low, scrubbybush. The "cedars of Lebanon" have almost disappeared. The carobtree, white poplar, a thorn bush, and the oleander are found in somelocalities. The principal fruit-bearing trees are the fig, olive, datepalm, pomegranate, orange, and lemon. Grapes, apples, apricots, quinces,and other fruits also grow here. Wheat, barley, and a kind of corn areraised, also tomatoes, cucumbers, watermelons, and tobacco. The groundis poorly cultivated with inferior tools, and the grain is tramped outwith cattle, as in the long ago.Sheep and goats are the most numerous domestic animals, a peculiarity ofthe sheep being the extra large "fat tail" (Lev. 3:9), a lump of purefat from ten to fifteen inches long and from three to five inches thick.Cattle, camels, horses, mules, asses, dogs and chickens are kept.CHAPTER IX.HISTORIC SKETCH OF PALESTINE.In the ancient Babylonian city called Ur of the Chaldees lived thepatriarch Terah, who was the father of three sons, Abram, Nahor, andHaran. Lot was the son of Haran, who died in Ur. Terah, accompanied byAbram, Sarai, and Lot, started for "the land of Canaan," but they "cameunto Haran and dwelt there," "and Terah died in Haran." "Now Jehovahsaid unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, andfrom thy father's house, unto the land that I will show thee: and I willmake of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee and make thy namegreat; and be thou a blessing: and I will bless them that bless thee,and him that curseth thee will I curse: and in thee shall all thefamilies of the earth be blessed." So Abram, Sarai, and Lot came intothe land of Canaan about 2300 B.C., and dwelt first at Shechem, but "heremoved from thence unto the mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitchedhis tent, having Bethel on the west and Ai on the east." Abram did notremain here, but journeyed to the south, and when a famine came, heentered Egypt. Afterwards he returned to the southern part of Canaan,and still later he returned "unto the place where his tent had been atthe beginning, between Bethel and Ai. * * * And Lot also, who went withAbram, had flocks, and herds, and tents." On account of some discordbetween the herdsmen of the two parties, "Abram said unto Lot, Let therebe no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between myherdsmen and thy herdsmen; for we are brethren." Accepting his uncle'sproposition, Lot chose the well watered Plain of the Jordan, "journeyedeast," "and moved his tent as far as Sodom," but "Abram moved his tent,and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron."Some time after this Chedorlaomer, king of Elam, entered the regionoccupied by Lot, and overcame the kings of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah,Zeboiim, and Bela, carrying away the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah,"and they took Lot * * * and his goods." "And there came one that hadescaped, and told Abram the Hebrew," who "led forth his trained men,born in his house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued as far asDan." As a result of this hasty pursuit, Abram "brought back all thegoods, and also brought back his brother Lot, and his goods, and thewomen also, and the people." "The king of Sodom went out to meet" Abramafter his great victory, and offered him the goods for his services,but the offer was refused. Abram was also met by "Melchizedek, king ofSalem," who "brought forth bread and wine," and "blessed him." Beforehis death, the first Hebrew saw the smoke from Sodom and Gomorrah goingup "as the smoke of a furnace," and he also passed through the severetrial of sacrificing his son Isaac. At the age of one hundred andseventy-five "the father of the faithful" "gave up the ghost, and diedin a good old age, an old man and full of years, * * * and Isaac andIshmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah," at Hebron, whereSarah had been laid to rest when the toils and cares of life were over.From Abraham, through Ishmael, descended the Ishmaelites; throughMidian, the Midianites; and through Isaac, the chosen people, calledIsraelites, from Jacob, whose name was changed to Israel. Theinteresting story of Joseph tells how his father and brothers, withtheir families, were brought into Egypt at the time of a famine, wherethey grew from a few families to a great nation, capable of maintainingan army of more than six hundred thousand men. A new king, "who knewnot Joseph," came on the throne, and after a period of oppression, theexodus took place, about 1490 B.C., the leader being Moses, a man eightyyears of age. At his death, after forty years of wandering in thewilderness, Joshua became the leader of Israel, and they crossed theJordan at Gilgal, a few miles north of the Dead Sea, capturing Jerichoin a peculiar manner. Two other incidents in the life of Joshua maybe mentioned here. One was his victory over the Amorites in theneighborhood of Gibeon and Beth-horon, where more were slain by thehailstones which Jehovah cast down upon them than were killed by Israelwith the sword. It was on this occasion that Joshua said: "Sun, standthou still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Aijalon. Andthe sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the nation had avengedthemselves of their enemies. * * * And there was no day like that beforeor after it." The other event is the complete victory of Israel over theimmense army of Jabin, king of Hazor, fought at the Waters of Merom, inGalilee. The combined forces of Jabin and several confederate kings,"even as the sand that is upon the sea-shore in multitude, with horsesand chariots very many," were utterly destroyed. Then came the allotmentof the territory west of the Jordan to the nine and a half tribes, asReuben, Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh had been assigned land eastof the river. The allotment was made by Joshua, Eleazer, the priest,"and the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of the children ofIsrael."The period of the Judges, extending from Joshua to Saul, over threehundred years, was a time in which Israel was troubled by severalheathen tribes, including the Moabites, Ammonites, Midianites,Amalekites, and Canaanites. The most troublesome of all were thePhilistines, who "were repulsed by Shamgar and harassed by Samson," butthey continued their hostility, capturing the Ark of the Covenant in thedays of Eli, and finally bringing Israel so completely under their powerthat they had to go to the Philistines to sharpen their tools.The cry was raised: "Make us a king to judge us, like all the nations."Although this was contrary to the will of God, and amounted to rejectingthe Lord, the Almighty gave directions for making Saul king, when therebellious Israelites "refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel," andsaid: "Nay, but we will have a king over us." Two important events inSaul's reign are the battle of Michmash and the war with Amalek. In thefirst instance a great host of Philistines were encamped at Michmash,and Saul, with his army, was at Gilgal. Samuel was to come and offer asacrifice, but did not arrive at the appointed time, and the soldiersdeserted, till Saul's force numbered only about six hundred. In hisstrait, the king offered the burnt offering himself, and immediatelySamuel appeared, heard his explanation, and declared: "Thou hast donefoolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God. * ** Now thy kingdom shall not continue." Saul's loyalty to God was againtested in the affair with Amalek, and his disobedience in sparing Agagand the best of the cattle and sheep should be better known and moreheeded than it is. Concerning this, the prophet of God chastised him,saying: "Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearkenthan the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, andstubbornness is as idolatry and teraphim. Because thou hast rejected theword of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king." The darkpicture of Saul's doings is here and there relieved by the unadulteratedlove of Jonathan and David, "which, like the glintings of the diamond inthe night," takes away some of the deepest shadows.The next king, Jesse's ruddy-faced shepherd boy, was anointed by Samuelat Bethlehem, and for seven and a half years he reigned over Judah fromhis capital at Hebron. Abner made Ish-bosheth, the only surviving sonof Saul, king over Israel, "and he reigned two years. But the house ofJudah followed David." Abner, who had commanded Saul's army, becameoffended at the king he had made, and went to Hebron to arrange withDavid to turn Israel over to him, but Joab treacherously slew him inrevenge for the blood of Asahel. It was on this occasion that Daviduttered the notable words: "Know ye not that there is a prince and agreat man fallen this day in Israel?" Afterwards Rechab and Baanah slewIsh-bosheth in his bedchamber and carried his head to David, who was sodispleased that he caused them to be killed, and their hands and feetwere cut off and hanged up by the pool in Hebron. Then the tribes ofIsrael came voluntarily and made themselves the subjects of King David,who captured Jebus, better known as Jerusalem, and moved his capital tothat city. During his reign the Philistines were again troublesome, anda prolonged war was waged against the Ammonites. During this war Davidhad his record stained by his sinful conduct in the matter of Uriah'swife.David was a fighting king, and his "reign was a series of trials andtriumphs." He not only subdued the Philistines, but conquered Damascus,Moab, Ammon, and Edom, and so extended his territory from theMediterranean to the Euphrates that it embraced ten times as much asSaul ruled over. But his heart was made sad by the shameful misconductof Amnon, followed by his death, and by the conspiracy of Absalom, therebellion following, and the death of this beautiful son. "The story ofDavid's hasty flight from Jerusalem over Olivet and across the Jordan toescape from Absalom is touchingly sad. 'And David went up by the ascentof the Mount of Olives, and wept as he went up, and he had his headcovered, and went barefoot.' Then what a picture of paternal love,which the basest filial ingratitude could not quench, is that of Davidmourning the death of Absalom, 'The king was much moved, and went up tothe chamber over the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O,my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! would I had died for thee, OAbsalom, my son, my son!'" After finishing out a reign of forty years,"the sweet singer of Israel" "slept with his fathers, and was buried inthe city of David."His son Solomon succeeded him on the throne, and had a peaceful reign offorty years, during which time the Temple on Mount Moriah was erected,being the greatest work of his reign. David had accumulated muchmaterial for this house; Hiram, king of Tyre, furnished cedar timberfrom the Lebanon mountains, and skilled workmen put up the building,into which the Ark of the Covenant was borne. This famous structure wasnot remarkable for its great size, but for the splendid manner in whichit was adorned with gold and other expensive materials. Israel's wisestmonarch was a man of letters, being the author of three thousandproverbs and a thousand and five songs. His wisdom exceeded that of allhis contemporaries, "and all the earth sought the presence of Solomon tohear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart." A case in point is thevisit of the Queen of Sheba, who said: "The half was not told me; thywisdom and prosperity exceed the fame which I heard." But the glory ofhis kingdom did not last long. "It dazzled for a brief space, like theblaze of a meteor, and then vanished away." Nehemiah says there was noking like him, "nevertheless even him did foreign women cause to sin."Solomon's reign ended about 975 B C., and his son, Rehoboam, wascoronated at Shechem. Jereboam, the son of Nebat, whose name isproverbial for wickedness, returned from Egypt, whence he had fled fromSolomon, and asked the new king to make the grievous service of hisfather lighter, promising to support him on that condition. Rehoboamcounseled "with the old men, that had stood before Solomon," and refusedtheir words, accepting the counsel of the young men that had grown upwith him. When he announced that he would make the yoke of his fatherheavier, the ten northern tribes revolted, and Jereboam became king ofwhat is afterwards known as the house of Israel. The kingdom lastedabout two hundred and fifty years, being ruled over by nineteen kings,but the government did not run smoothly. "Plot after plot was formed,and first one adventurer and then another seized the throne." Besidesthe internal troubles, there were numerous wars. Benhadad, of Damascus,besieged Samaria; Hazael, king of Syria, overran the land east of theJordan; Moab rebelled; Pul (Tiglath-pileser), king of Assyria, invadedthe country, and carried off a large amount of tribute, probablyamounting to two millions of dollars; and thirty years later he enteredthe land and carried away many captives. At a later date the peoplebecame idolatrous, and Shalmaneser, an Assyrian king, reduced them tosubjection, and carried numbers of them into Assyria, and replaced themwith men from Babylon and other places. By the intermarriage of Jewsremaining in the country with these foreigners a mixed race, calledSamaritans, sprang up.The southern section of the country, known as the kingdom of Judah, wasruled over by nineteen kings and one queen for a period of about threehundred and seventy-five years. Asa, one of the good kings, was areligious reformer--even "his mother he removed from being queen,because she had made an abominable image for an Asherah; and Asa cutdown her image and burnt it at the brook Kidron." But he, like manyother reformers, failed to make his work thorough, for "the high placeswere not taken away: nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect withJehovah all his days." Joash caused a chest to be placed "at the gate ofthe house of Jehovah," into which the people put "the tax that Moses,the servant of God, laid upon Israel in the wilderness," until theyhad gathered an abundance of money, with which the house of God wasrepaired, for the wicked sons of Athaliah had broken it up and bestowedthe dedicated things upon the Baalim. But after the death of Jehoida,the priest, Joash was himself led into idolatry, and when Zechariah, theson of Jehoida, rebuked the people for turning from God, they stoned himto death by the order of King Joash. The last words of the dyingmartyr were: "The Lord look upon it and require it." This is strangelydifferent from the last expression of Stephen, who "kneeled down, andcried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge."Amaziah returned "from the slaughter of the Edomites," and set up thegods of the idolatrous enemies he had whipped, "to be his gods." Ahazwas a wicked idolater, worshiping Baal and sacrificing his own sons.In strong contrast with such men as these we have the name ofHezekiah, whose prosperous reign was a grand period of reformation andimprovement. He was twenty-five years old when he came on the throne,and in the twenty-nine years he ruled, "he removed the high places, andbrake the pillars, and cut down the Asherah." The brazen serpent,made by Moses in the wilderness, had become an object of worship, butHezekiah called it "a piece of brass," and broke it in pieces. Thepassover had not been kept "in great numbers in such sort as it iswritten," so Hezekiah sent messengers from city to city to call thepeople to observe the passover. Some "laughed them to scorn, and mockedthem," but others "humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem," and inthe second month the "very great assembly * * * killed the passover. * ** So there was great joy in Jerusalem; for since the time of Solomon theson of David, king of Israel, there was not the like in Jerusalem."Manasseh, the next king, reestablished idolatry, and his son Amon,who ruled but two years, followed in his footsteps. Josiah, who nextoccupied the throne, was a different kind of a man. "He did that whichwas right in the eyes of Jehovah, and walked in all the way of David hisfather, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left." In hisreign, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law in the temple, anddelivered it to Shaphan the scribe, who read it, and took it to the kingand read it to him. "And it came to pass when the king heard the wordsof the book of the law, that he rent his clothes," and commanded thatinquiry be made of the Lord concerning the contents of the book. As aresult, the temple was cleansed of the vessels that had been used inBaal worship, the idolatrous priests were put down, the "houses of thesodomites," that were in the house of Jehovah, were broken down, thehigh places erected by Solomon were defiled, and a great reformation wasworked.Zedekiah was the last king in the line. In his day, Nebuchadnezzar, kingof Babylon, invaded the land, and besieged Jerusalem for sixteen months,reducing the people to such straits that women ate the flesh of theirown children. When the city fell, a portion of the inhabitants werecarried to Babylon, and the furnishings of the temple were taken awayas plunder. Zedekiah, with his family, sought to escape, going outover Olivet as David in his distress had done, but he was captured andcarried to Riblah, thirty-five miles north of Baalbec, where his sonswere slain in his presence. Then his eyes were put out, and he wascarried to Babylon. In this way were fulfilled the two prophecies, thathe should be taken to Babylon, and that he should not see it.Thus, with Jerusalem a mass of desolate, forsaken ruins, the Babylonianperiod was ushered in. Some of the captives rose to positions of trustin the Babylonian government. Daniel and his three associates areexamples. During this period Ezekiel was a prophet. No doubt the frameof mind of most of them is well expressed by the Psalmist: "By therivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea we wept when we rememberedZion. Upon the willows in the midst thereof we hanged up our harps."The Medo-Persian period began with the conquest of Babylon by Cyrus, whobrought the Jews under his rule. The captives were permitted to returnto Palestine, and Zerubbabel soon had the foundations of the templelaid; but here the work came to a standstill, and so remained forseventeen years. About 520 B.C., when Darius was king of Persia, thework was resumed, and carried on to completion. For some years theservice of God seems to have been conducted in an unbecoming manner.Nehemiah came upon the stage of action, rebuilt the city walls, requiredthe observance of the Sabbath, and served as governor twelve yearswithout pay. Ezra brought back a large number of the people, repairedthe temple, and worked a great reformation. Under his influence, thosewho had married foreign wives put them away, and "some had wives by whomthey had children." As the Samaritans were not allowed to help build thetemple, they erected one of their own on Mt Gerizim. A few Samaritansstill exist in Nablus, and hold services on Gerizim. "After Nehemiah,the office of civil ruler seems to have become extinct."The Greek period begins with the operations of Alexander the Great inAsia, 333 B.C., and extends to the time of the Maccabees, 168 B.C. AfterAlexander's death, his empire fell into the two great divisions of Egyptand Syria. The Egyptian rulers were called Ptolemies, and those ofSyria were called the Selucidae. For one hundred and twenty-five yearsPalestine was held by Egypt, during which time Ptolemy Philadelphus hadthe Septuagint version of the Old Testament made at Alexandria.Syria next secured control of Palestine. The walls of Jerusalem weredestroyed, and the altar of Jehovah was polluted with swine's flesh. Wenow hear of an aged priest named Mattathias, who at Modin, a few milesfrom Jerusalem, had the courage to kill a Jew who was about to sacrificeon a heathen altar. He escaped to the mountains, where he was joined bya number of others of the same mind. His death soon came, but he leftfive stalwart sons like himself. Judas, called Maccabeus, became theleader, and from him the whole family was named the Maccabees. He beganwar against the Syrians and apostate Jews. The Syrians, numbering fiftythousand, took up a position at Emmaus, while the Maccabees encamped atMizpah. Although greatly outnumbered, they were victorious, as theywere in another engagement with sixty thousand Syrians at Hebron. Judasentered Jerusalem, and repaired and cleansed the temple. Thus theMaccabean period was ushered in. After some further fighting, Judaswas slain, and Simon, the only surviving brother, succeeded him, andJerusalem was practically independent. His son, John Hyrcanus, was thenext ruler. The Pharisees and Sadducees now come prominently into Jewishaffairs. The Essenes also existed at this time, and dressed in white.After some time (between 65-62 B.C.), Pompey, the Roman general, enteredthe open gates of the city, but did not capture the citadel for threeweeks, finally taking advantage of the day of Pentecost, when the Jewswould not fight. The Roman period began with the slaughter of twelvethousand citizens. Priests were slain at the altar, and the temple wasprofaned. Judaea became a Roman province, and was compelled to paytribute.Herod the Great became governor of Galilee, and later the Roman senatemade him king of Judaea. He besieged Jerusalem, and took it in 37 B.C."A singular compound of good and bad--mostly bad--was this King Herod."He hired men to drown a supposed rival, as if in sport, at Jerichoon the occasion of a feast, and in the beginning of his reign heslaughtered more than half of the members of the Sanhedrin. The agedhigh priest Hyrcanus was put to death, as was also Mariamne, the wifeof this monster, who was ruling when the Messiah was born at Bethlehem.Herod was a great builder, and it was he who reconstructed the temple onmagnificent lines. He also built Caesarea, and rebuilt Samaria. Afterhis death, the country was divided and ruled by his three sons. Achelausreigned ingloriously in Jerusalem for ten years, and was banished.Judaea was then ruled by procurators, Pilate being the fifth one ofthem, ruling from A.D. 26-36. In the year A.D. 65 the Jews rebelledagainst the Romans, after being their subjects for one hundred andtwenty-two years. They were not subdued until the terrible destructionof the Holy City in A.D. 70, when, according to Josephus, one millionone hundred thousand Jews perished in the siege, two hundred andfifty-six thousand four hundred and fifty were slain elsewhere, and onehundred and one thousand seven hundred prisoners were sold into bondage.The Temple was completely destroyed along with the city, which for sixtyyears "lay in ruins so complete that it is doubtful whether there was asingle house that could be used as a residence." The land was annexed toSyria, and ceased to be a Jewish country. Hadrian became emperor in A.D.117, and issued an edict forbidding the Jews to practice circumcision,read the law, or to observe the Sabbath. These things greatly distressedthe Jews, and in A.D. 132 they rallied to the standard of Bar Cochba,who has been styled "the last and greatest of the false Messiahs." TheRomans were overthrown, Bar Cochba proclaimed himself king in Jerusalem,and carried on the war for two years. At one time he held fifty towns,but they were all taken from him, and he was finally killed at Bether,or Bittir. This was the last effort of the Jews to recover the land byforce of arms. Hadrian caused the site of the temple to be plowed over,and the city was reconstructed being made thoroughly pagan. For twohundred years the Jews were forbidden to enter it. In A.D. 326 theEmpress Helena visited Jerusalem, and built a church on the Mount ofOlives. Julian the Apostate undertook to rebuild the Jewish temple inA.D. 362, but was frustrated by "balls of fire" issuing from underthe ruins and frightening the workmen. In A.D. 529 the Greek emperorJustinian built a church in the city in honor of the Virgin. ThePersians under Chosroes II. invaded Palestine in A.D. 614 and destroyedpart of Jerusalem. After fourteen years they were defeated and Jerusalemwas restored, but the Mohammedans under Omar captured it in A.D. 637.The structure called the Dome of the Rock, on Mt. Moriah, was built bythem in A.D. 688.The Crusades next engage our attention. The first of these militaryexpeditions was made to secure the right to visit the Holy Sepulcher. Itwas commenced at the call of the Pope in 1096. A force of two hundredand seventy-five thousand men began the march, but never enteredPalestine. Another effort was made by six hundred thousand men, whocaptured Antioch in 1098. A little later the survivors defeated theMohammedan army of two hundred thousand. Still later they enteredJerusalem, and Godfrey of Bouillon was made king of the city in 1099. Byconquest he came to rule the whole of Palestine. The orders of KnightsHospitallers and Knights Templars were formed, and Godfrey continued inpower about fifty years. In 1144 two European armies, aggregating onemillion two hundred thousand men, started on the second crusade, whichwas a total failure. Saladin, the Sultan of Egypt, conquered Jerusalemin 1187, and the third crusade was inaugurated, which resulted insecuring the right to make pilgrimages to Jerusalem free from taxes. Thepower of the Crusaders was now broken. Another band assembled atVenice in 1203 to undertake the fourth crusade, but they never enteredPalestine. The fifth effort was made, and Frederick, Emperor of Germany,crowned himself king of Jerusalem in 1229, and returned to his nativeland the next year. The Turks conquered Palestine in 1244 and burnedJerusalem. Louis IX. of France led the seventh crusade, another failure,in 1248. He undertook it again in 1270, but went to Africa, and PrinceEdward of England entered Palestine in 1271 and accepted a truce for tenyears, which was offered by the Sultan of Egypt. This, the eighth andlast crusade, ended in 1272 by the return of Edward to England. In 1280Palestine was invaded by the Mamelukes, and in 1291 the war of theCrusaders ended with the fall of Acre, "the last Christian possession inPalestine." Besides these efforts there were children's crusades for theconversion or conquest of the Moslems. The first, in 1212, was composedof thirty thousand boys. Two ship loads were drowned and the third wassold as slaves to the Mohammedans.In 1517 the country passed to the control of the Ottoman Empire, and soremained until 1832, when it fell back to Egypt for eight years. Thepresent walls around Jerusalem, which inclose two hundred and ten acresof ground, were built by Suleiman the Magnificent in 1542. In 1840Palestine again became Turkish territory, and so continues to this day.The really scientific exploration of the land began with the journeyof Edward Robinson, an American, in 1838. In 1856 the United StatesConsulate was established in Jerusalem, and twelve governments are nowrepresented by consulates. Sir Charles Wilson created an interest in thegeography of Palestine by his survey of Jerusalem and his travels inthe Holy Land from 1864 to 1868. Palestine was surveyed from Dan toBeer-sheba and from the Jordan to the Great Sea in the years from 1872to 1877. The Siloam inscription, the "only known relic of the writing ** * of Hezekiah's days," was discovered in 1880. The railroad from Jaffato Jerusalem was opened in 1892. Within the last ten years severalcarriage roads have been built. Protestant schools and missions havebeen established at many important places. The population of the city isnow about fifty-five thousand souls, but they do not all live inside ofthe walls. What the future of Palestine may be is an interesting subjectfor thought.CHAPTER X.CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN GREAT BRITAIN.No doubt many of my readers will be specially interested in knowingsomething of my experience and association with the brethren across thesea, and it is my desire to give them as fair an understanding of thesituation as I can. There are five congregations in Glasgow, having amembership of six hundred and seventy-eight persons. The oldest one ofthese, which formerly met in Brown Street and now meets in ShawlandsHall, was formed in 1839, and has one hundred and sixty-one members. TheCoplaw Street congregation, which branched from Brown Street, and is nowthe largest of the five, dates back to 1878, and numbers two hundred andnineteen. It was my privilege to attend one of the mid-week services ofthis congregation and speak to those present on that occasion. I alsomet some of the brethren in Edinburgh, where two congregations have amembership of two hundred and fifty-three. At Kirkcaldy, the home of myworthy friend and brother, Ivie Campbell, Jr., there is a congregationof one hundred and seventy disciples, which I addressed one Lord's daymorning. In the evening I went out with Brother and Sister Campbell andanother brother to Coaltown of Balgonie, and addressed the little bandworshiping at that place.My next association with the brethren was at the annual meeting of"Churches of Christ in Great Britain and Ireland," convened at Wigan,England, August second, third, and fourth. While at Wigan I went out toPlatt Bridge and spoke to the brethren. There are ninety members in thiscongregation. One night in Birmingham I met with the brethren in CharlesHenry Street, where the congregation, formed in 1857, numbers twohundred and seventy-four, and the next night I was with the Geach Streetcongregation, which has been in existence since 1865, and numberstwo hundred and twenty-nine members. Bro. Samuel Joynes, now ofPhiladelphia, was formerly connected with this congregation. While I wasin Bristol it was my pleasure to meet with the Thrissell Street church,composed of one hundred and thirty-one members. I spoke once in theirplace of worship and once in a meeting on the street. The last band ofbrethren I was with while in England was the church at Twynholm, London.This is the largest congregation of all, and will receive considerationlater in the chapter. The next place that I broke bread was in a littlemission to the Jews in the Holy City. To complete a report of my publicspeaking while away, I will add that I preached in Mr. Thompson'stabernacle in Jerusalem, and spoke a few words on one or both of theLord's days at the mission to which reference has already been made. Ialso spoke in a mission meeting conducted by Mr. Locke at Port Said,Egypt, preached once on the ship as I was coming back across theAtlantic, and took part in a little debate on shipboard as I went out onthe journey, and in an entertainment the night before I got back to NewYork.In this chapter I am taking my statistics mainly from the Year Bookcontaining the fifty-ninth annual report of the churches in GreatBritain and Ireland co-operating for evangelistic purposes, embracingalmost all of the congregations of disciples in the country. Accordingto this report, there were one hundred and eighty-three congregations onthe list, with a total membership of thirteen thousand and sixty-three,at the time of the annual meeting last year.(Since writing this chapter, the sixtieth annual report of thesebrethren across the sea has come into my hands, and the items in thisparagraph are taken mainly from the address of Bro. John WyckliffeBlack, as chairman of the annual meeting which assembled in August ofthis year at Leeds. The membership is now reported at thirteen thousandeight hundred and forty-four, an increase of about eight hundred memberssince the meeting held at Wigan in 1904. In 1842 the British brotherhoodnumbered thirteen hundred, and in 1862 it had more than doubled. Afterthe lapse of another period of twenty years, the number had more thandoubled again, standing at six thousand six hundred and thirty-two.In 1902, when twenty years more had passed, the membership had almostdoubled again, having grown to twelve thousand five hundred andthirty-seven. In 1842 the average number of members in each congregationwas thirty-one; in 1862 it was forty; in 1882 it had reached sixty-one;and in 1902 it was seventy-two. The average number in each congregationis now somewhat higher than it was in 1902.)Soon after the meeting was convened on Tuesday, "the Conferencerecognised the presence of Mrs. Hall and Miss Jean Hall, of Sydney,N.S.W., and Brother Don Carlos Janes, from Ohio, U.S.A., and cordiallygave them a Christian welcome." The address of welcome and the addressof the chairman, Brother James Anderson, of Fauldhouse, Scotland, cameearly in the day. The meeting on Wednesday opened with worship and ashort address, followed by reports from the General Sunday-school,Reference, General Training, and Magazine Committees. One interestingfeature of the proceedings of this day was the conference paper by Bro.T.J. Ainsworth on the subject of "The Relation of Christianity to theSocial Questions of the Day." Besides a discussion of this paper, therewas a preaching service at night. Thursday, the last day of the meeting,was occupied, after the morning worship and short address, with thereports of committees and the appointment of committees. At the socialmeeting at night several brethren, who had been previously selected,spoke on such subjects as seemed good to them. Bro. W.A. Kemp, ofMelbourne, Australia, and the writer were the only speakers notresidents of the British Isles. At the close of the meeting thefollowing beautiful hymn was sung to the tune of "Auld Lang Syne":  Hail, sweetest, dearest tie, that binds    Our glowing hearts in one;  Hail, sacred hope, that tunes our minds    To harmony divine.  It is the hope, the blissful hope    Which Jesus' words afford--  The hope, when days and years are past,    Of life with Christ the Lord.  What though the northern wintry blast    Shall howl around our cot?  What though beneath an eastern sun    Be cast our distant lot?  Yet still we share the blissful hope    His cheering words afford--  The hope, when days and years are past,    Of glory with the Lord.  From Burmah's shores, from Afric's strand,    From India's burning plain,  From Europe, from Columbia's land,    We hope to meet again.  Oh, sweetest hope, oh, blissful hope,    Which His own truth affords--  The hope, when days and years are past,    We still shall be the Lord's.  No lingering look, no parting sigh,    Our future meeting knows;  There friendship beams from every eye,    And love immortal glows.  Oh, sacred hope, the blissful hope,    His love and truth afford--  The hope, when days and years are past,    Of reigning with the Lord.I am not willing to accept everything done in the annual meeting, butthe hearty good will manifested and the pleasant and happy associationsenjoyed make it in those respects very commendable. These brethrenare very systematic and orderly in their work. Some one, who has beendesignated beforehand, takes charge of the meeting, and everything movesalong nicely. When a visiting brother comes in, he is recognized andmade use of, but they do not turn the meeting over to him anddepend upon him to conduct it. The president of the Lord's day morningmeeting and part or all of the officers sit together on the platform.The following is the order of procedure in one of the meetings whichI attended: After singing a hymn and offering prayer, the brotherpresiding announced the reading lessons from both Testaments, at thesame time naming two brethren who would read these scriptures. Afterthey had come forward and read the lessons before the church, anotherhymn was sung, and certain definite objects of prayer were mentionedbefore the congregation again engaged in that part of the worship. Twoprayers were offered, followed by the announcements, after which abrother delivered an address. Then the president made mention of thevisitors present, and an old gentleman from the platform extended "theright hand of fellowship" to some new members before the contributionwas taken and the Lord's supper observed, a hymn being sung betweenthese two items. A concluding hymn and prayer closed the service, whichhad been well conducted, without discord or confusion.A brother in Wigan gave me a statement of the work of one of thecongregations there in the winter season. On the Lord's day they haveschool at 9:20 A.M. and at 2 P.M.; breaking the bread at 10:30 A.M., andpreaching the gospel at 6:30 P.M. At this evening meeting the Lord'stable is again spread for the benefit of servants and others who werenot able to be at the morning service. This is a common practice. Theyoung people's social and improvement class meets on Monday evening, ameeting for prayer and a short address is held on Tuesday evening, andthe Band of Hope, a temperance organization for young people, meetson Wednesday evening. The singing class uses Thursday night, and theofficers of the church sometimes have a meeting on Friday night.During the life of Bro. Timothy Coop much money was spent in an effortto build up along the lines adopted by the innovators here in America.Bro. Coop visited this country, and was well pleased with the operationsof the congregations that had adopted the modern methods, and he wasinstrumental in having some American evangelists to go to England, anda few churches were started. I was told that there are about a dozencongregations of these disciples, called "American brethren" by theother English disciples, with a membership of about two thousand, andthat it is a waning cause.The rank and file of these British brethren are more conservative thanthe innovators here at home, but they have moved forward somewhat inadvance of the churches here contending for apostolic simplicity incertain particulars. A few of the congregations use a musicalinstrument in gospel meetings and Sunday-school services, and some haveorganizations such as the Band of Hope and the Dorcas Society. Theorganization of the annual meeting is said to be only advisory. Thefollowing lines, a portion of a resolution of the annual meeting of 1861will help the reader to form an idea of the purpose and nature of theorganization: "That this Cooeperation shall embrace such of the Churchescontending for the primitive faith and order as shall willingly beplaced upon the list of Churches printed in its Annual Report. That theChurches thus cooeperating disavow any intention or desire to recognizethemselves as a denomination, or to limit their fellowship to theChurches thus cooeperating; but, on the contrary, they avow it both aduty and a pleasure to visit, receive, and cooeperate with ChristianChurches, without reference to their taking part in the meetings andefforts of this Cooeperation. Also, that this Cooeperation has for itsobject evangelization only, and disclaims all power to settle matters ofdiscipline, or differences between brethren or Churches; that if in anyinstance it should see fit to refuse to insert in or to remove from theList any Church or company of persons claiming to be a Church, it shalldo so only in reference to this Cooeperation, leaving each and everyChurch to judge for itself, and to recognize and fellowship as it mayunderstand the law of the Lord to require."The question of delegate voting with a view to making the action of theannual meeting more weighty with the congregations was discussed at theWigan meeting, but was voted down, although it had numerous advocates.One of the brethren, in speaking of the use of instrumental music in thesinging, said they try not to use it when they worship the Lord, but Iconsider the use they make of it is unscriptural, and it puts the churchin great danger of having the innovation thrust into all the services atsome future time. All of these churches could learn a valuable lessonfrom some of our home congregations that have been rent asunder by theunholy advocacy of innovations.But there are some very commendable things about these brethren. Inoticed careful attention being given to the public reading of theScriptures, and the congregation joins heartily in the singing. I aminformed that every member takes part in the contribution withoutexception. They do not take contributions from visitors and children whoare not disciples. The talent in the congregation is well developed. Inthis they are far ahead of us. While there are not many giving theirwhole time to evangelistic work, there are many who are acceptablespeakers. One brother said they probably have a preacher for eachtwenty-five members. Men heavily involved in business take time toattend the meetings. For instance, one brother, who is at the head of afactory employing about a thousand people, and is interested in miningand in the manufacture of brick besides, is an active member of thecongregation with which he worships. The brethren in general arefaithful in the matter of being present at the breaking of bread. Whenvisiting brethren come in, they are given a public welcome, and aresometimes pointed out to the congregation. Also, when brethren returnfrom a vacation or other prolonged absence, they are given a welcome.They pray much. The week-night meeting for prayer and study of the Bibleis largely taken up with prayer. I like the way they point out definiteobjects of prayer. For instance, two sisters are leaving for Canada;some one is out of employment, and some have lost friends by death.These matters are mentioned, and some one is called on to lead theprayer, and these points are included in his petition to the Lord.Sometimes but one brother is asked to lead in prayer; sometimes morethan one are designated, and at other times they leave it open for someone to volunteer. The following hymn was sung in one of these meetingswhich I attended:  LET US PRAY.  Come, let us pray; 'tis sweet to feel    That God himself is near;  That, while we at his footstool kneel,    His mercy deigns to hear;  Though sorrows crowd life's dreary way,  This is our solace--let us pray.  Come, let us pray; the burning brow,    The heart oppressed with care,  And all the woes that throng us now,    May be relieved by prayer;  Jesus can smile our griefs away;  Oh, glorious thought! come, let us pray.  Come, let us pray; the mercy-seat    Invites the fervent prayer,  And Jesus ready stands to greet    The contrite spirit there;  Oh, loiter not, nor longer stay  From him who loves us; let us pray.They do not publish as many papers as we do, but have one weeklyjournal, the _Bible Advocate_, edited by Bro. L. Oliver, of Birmingham,which has a general circulation, reaching almost four thousand copies.One feature of the paper last summer was the publication of the Life ofElder John Smith as a serial. The colored covers of the _Bible Advocate_contain a long list of the hours and places of worship of congregationsin different parts of the country, and even outside of the British Islesin some cases. In some instances the local congregation publishes apaper of its own, affording a good medium through which to advertise themeetings and to keep distant brethren informed of the work that is beingdone, as well as to teach the truth of God.A book room is maintained in Birmingham, where the British and Americanpublications may be purchased. They were using a hymn-book (words only)of their own and a tune-book published by others, but a new hymnbook wasunder consideration when I was among them last year. A list of isolatedmembers is kept, and persons elected by the annual meeting conduct acorrespondence with these brethren. The following are extracts from someof the letters received in reply to those that had been sent out: "I amhoping that the day will come when I can leave this district and get toone where I can have the fellowship of my brethren; but meanwhile I amglad and thankful to be held in remembrance of my brethren and to be onyour list, and I pray God to help your work, for I have still hope inHim, and know He has not given me up." Another brother says: "Though Ican not say that I have anything important or cheering to write, yet Ican say that I am rejoicing in the salvation of God, which is in ChristJesus our Lord. My isolation from regular church fellowship has beenso long that I have almost given up the hope of enjoying it again inArbroath; but still my prayer is that the Lord would raise up some hereor send some here who know the truth, and who love the Lord with theirwhole heart, and would be able and willing to declare unto the peoplethe whole counsel of God concerning the way of salvation." A Sisters'Conference was held in connection with the annual meeting, and aTemperance Conference and Meeting was held on Monday before the annualmeeting opened.Missionary work is being carried on in Burmah, Siam, and South Africa.In Burmah some attention has been given to translating and publishing apart of the Psalms in one of the languages of that country. "Muchtime has been spent in the villages by systematic visitation, bythe distribution of literature, and by seizing upon any and everyopportunity of speaking to the people. Street meetings have beenconstantly held, visitors received on the boat, the gospel preached fromthe Mission-boat to the people sitting on the banks of the river, andalso proclaimed to the people in their homes, in the villages, and inthe fields, and on the fishing stations. Although there were but twobaptisms during the year the congregation numbers fifty-one." Thebrethren in Siam were working where the rivers, numerous canals, andcreeks form the chief roadways. The Year Book contains the followingconcerning the medical missionary in this field: "His chief work duringthe year has been rendering such help as his short medical training hasfitted him to give. For a time twelve to twenty patients a day cameto him for treatment. After a while the numbers fell off, he thoughtbecause all the sick in the neighborhood had been cured." "The littlechurch in Nakon Choom * * * now consists of two Karens, one Burman,one Mon, two Chinamen, and two Englishmen. As several of these do notunderstand the others' language, the gift of tongues would seem notundesirable." In South Africa there are congregations at Johannesburg,Pretoria, Bulawayo, Cape Town, and Carolina. The church in Bulawayonumbers about fifty members, nearly all of whom are natives "who areeager learners."I saw more of the workings of the church at Twynholm than any othercongregation visited, as I stayed at Twynholm House while in London bothon the outward trip and as I returned home. Of the seven congregationsin this city, Twynholm is the largest, and is the largest in the Britishbrotherhood, having a membership of above five hundred. This church wasestablished in 1894 with twenty-five members, and has had a good growth.They open the baptistery every Lord's day night, and very frequentlyhave occasion to use it. There were fifty-three baptisms last year, andtwenty-one others were added to the membership of the church. At theclose of a recent church year the Band of Hope numbered five hundred andfifteen, and the Lord's day school had twelve hundred and fifty pupilsand one hundred and two teachers. I think it was one hundred and sixtylittle tots I saw in one room, and down in this basement there wereabout fifty more. I was told that there were more children attendingthan they had accommodation for, but they disliked to turn any of themaway. The Woman's Meeting had one hundred and sixteen members; the TotalAbstinence Society, one hundred and fifty; and the membership of theYouths' Institute and Bible Students' Class were not given. Fivethousand copies of _Joyful Tidings_, an eight-page paper, are given awayeach month. The following announcement from the first page of this paperwill indicate something of the activities of this congregation:  CHURCH OF CHRIST,  Twynholm Assembly Hall,  Fulham Cross, S.W.  REGULAR SERVICES AND GATHERINGS.  _LORD'S DAY._  9:45 A.M.--Bible Students' Class.  11:00 A.M.--Divine Worship and "The Breaking of Bread".               (Acts 2:42, etc.)  2:45 P.M.--Lord's Day Schools.  3:00 P.M.--Young Men's Institute.  4:00 P.M.--Teachers' Prayer Meeting (first Lord's day in the               month).  6:30 P.M.--_Evangelistic Service_.  7:45 P.M.--Believers' Immersion (usually).  8:10 P.M.--"The Breaking of Bread" (Continued).  _MONDAY._  2:30 P.M.--Woman's Own Meeting.  7:00 P.M.--Band of Hope.  8:30 P.M.--Social Gathering for Young People (over fourteen).  8:30 P.M.--Total Abstinence Society (last Monday night in the               month).  _THURSDAY._  8:00 P.M.--Mid-week Service for Prayer, Praise, and Public               Exposition of the Word.  9:00 P.M.--Singing Practice.  _FRIDAY._  8:00 P.M.--Teachers' Preparation Class and Devotional Meeting.              (Open to all).  Seat all Free and Unappropriated.  No Public Collections.  Hymn-books provided for Visitors.This Church of Christ earnestly pleads for the complete restoration ofthe primitive Christianity of the New Testament, for the cultivation ofpersonal piety, and benevolence, and for loving service for Jesus theChrist.Twynholm is the name given to a piece of property, originally intendedfor a hotel, situated in the western part of London, at the intersectionof four streets in Fulham Cross. These streets make it a place easilyreached, and the numerous saloons make the necessity for such aninfluence as emanates from a church of God very great. There is a good,commodious audience-room at the rear, and several smaller rooms aboutthe premises. The front part is owned and controlled by a brother whohas a family of Christians to live there and run the restaurant on thefirst floor and the lodging rooms on the two upper floors, where thereare accommodations for a few young men. Here I had a desirable room, andwas well cared for by the brother and sister who manage the house. Therestaurant is not run for profit, but to afford the people a place toeat cheaply and to spend time without going where intoxicants are sold.The patrons are allowed to sit at the tables and play such games asdominoes, the aim being to counteract the evil influences of that partof the city as far as possible. One night I attended a meeting of theBand of Hope in a big basement room at Twynholm, where a large numberof small children were being taught to pray, and were receiving goodinstruction along the line of temperance. Several older persons were onduty to preserve order among these children, many of whom had doubtlesscome from homes where little about order and good behavior is evertaught. Soon after this meeting I went up on the street, and there, neara saloon with six visible entrances, a street musician was playing hisorgan, while small girls, perhaps not yet in their teens, were beingencouraged to dance.At Twynholm I also attended the Social Hour meeting, which was anenjoyable affair. A program of recitations, songs, etc., was rendered.This also, I suppose, is to offset some of the evil agencies of thegreat city and keep the young people under good influences. The Woman'sMeeting convenes on Monday afternoon. The leaders of the meeting areladies of the church, who are laboring for the betterment of an inferiorclass of London women. I spoke before this meeting, by request, andwas, so far as I now recollect, the only male person present. It is thecustom to use the instrument in connection with the singing in thismeeting, but I asked them to refrain on this occasion. An orphans' homeis also conducted, having members of this congregation as its managers.It is a very busy church, and for being busy and diligent it is to becommended, but I believe there is too much organization. But here, aselsewhere in Britain, there are many very commendable things about thebrethren. I have already spoken of system in their proceedings. Theyoutline their work for a given period of time, specifying the Scripturesto be read, the leaders of the meetings, and who is to preach on eachLord's day night. Then, for the sake of convenience, these schedulesare printed, and they are carefully followed. This is far ahead of thehaphazard method, or lack of method, at home, where brethren sometimescome together neither knowing what the lesson will be nor who willconduct the meeting.Whatever may be the faults of these disciples in the old country, itmust be said to their credit that they are kind and hospitable tostrangers, and make a visiting brother welcome. The talent in theircongregations is better developed than it is here, and their meetingsare conducted in a more orderly and systematic manner. They are morefaithful in the observance of the Lord's supper than many in this land.The percentage of preachers giving their whole time to the work is lessthan it is here, but the number who can and do take part in the publicwork of the church is proportionately larger than it is here.I will now close this chapter and this volume with the address ofBrother Anderson, chairman of the annual meeting held last year atWigan:DEAR BRETHREN:--In accepting the responsible and honorable position inwhich you have placed me, I do so conscious of a defect that I hope youwill do your best to help and bear with. Please speak as distinctly aspossible, so that I may hear what is said. There may be other defectsthat I might have helped, but please do your best to help me in thisrespect.I heartily thank you for the honor conferred upon me. Whether I deserveit or not, I know that it is well meant on your part. We prefer honorto dishonor; but what one may count a great honor, another may lightlyesteem. The point of view is almost everything in these matters; but ifpositions of honor in the kingdoms of the earth are lightly esteemed,positions of honor in the kingdom of God have a right to be esteemedmore highly.We are met in conference as subjects of the kingdom of God, as heirs ofeverlasting glory, having a hope greater than the world can give, anda peace that the world can neither give nor take away. To preside oversuch a gathering, met to consider the best means of spreading the Gospelof Christ among men, is a token of respect upon which I place a veryhigh value. The fact that it came unexpectedly does not lessen thepleasure.I know that you have not placed me here on account of my tact andbusiness ability to manage this conference well. Had I possessed thesequalities in a marked degree, you would no doubt have taken notice ofthem before this time. I know that you only wish to pay a token ofrespect to a plain old soldier before he lays aside his harness, and,brethren, I thank you for that.For forty-four years I have enjoyed sweet and uninterrupted fellowshipin this brotherhood. For over forty years my voice has been heard in thepreaching of the Gospel of the Grace of God. For close on thirty yearsall my time has been given to the proclamation and defense of NewTestament truth as held by us as a people. Every year has added strengthto the conviction that God has led me to take my stand among thepeople who of all the people on the earth are making the best and mostconsistent effort to get back to the religion established by Christ andhis apostles. I therefore bless the day that I became one of you.Had our position been wrong, I have given myself every opportunity ofknowing it. Circumstances have compelled me to examine our foundationsagain and again. I have been called upon to defend our faith, whenattacked, times not a few. Whatever may be the effect that I have hadupon others, my own confidence has been increased at every turn. To-dayI am certain that if the New Testament is right, we can not be farwrong; and if the New Testament can not be trusted, there is an end tothe whole matter. But the claims of Christ and the truth of the NewTestament are matters upon which a doubt never rises. As years roll on,it becomes more easy to believe and harder to doubt. Knowledge, reason,and experience now supply such varied yet harmonious and converginglines of evidence that a doubt seems impossible. Difficulties we mayhave, and perhaps must have, as long as we live, but we can certainlyrise above the fog land of doubt. Considering all this, it gives me morepleasure to preside over this gathering than over any other voluntarygathering on earth. It is a voluntary gathering. We do not profess tobe here by Divine appointment. It is a meeting of heaven's freemen toconsider the best means of advancing the will of God among men. Whilemet, may we all act in a manner worthy of the great object which bringsus together.Faith, forbearance and watchfulness will be required as long as we live,if we wish to keep the unity of the faith in the bond of peace. Allthose who set out for a complete return to Jerusalem have not held ontheir way; some have gone a long way back and others are going. Whathas happened in other lands may happen here, unless we watch and arefaithful. The more carefully we look into matters, we shall be theless inclined to move. Putting all God's arrangements faithfully andearnestly to the test, and comparing them with others, increases ourfaith in them. Faithfulness increases faith. This keeps growing uponyou till you become certain that only God's means will accomplish God'sends. Sectarianism, tested by experience, is a failure.The time was when our danger in departing from our simple plea ofreturning to the Bible alone lay in our being moved by clerical andsectarian influences. To the young in particular in the present day thatcan hardly be called our greatest danger. The influences at work toproduce doubt in regard to the truth of the Bible were never so great asthey are now. This used to be the particular work of professed infidels;now it is more largely the work of professed Christian scholars. If youwish to pass for a "scholar," you must not profess to believe the OldTestament. You must not say too much against the truth of that book, oryou may be called in question, but you can go a good long way beforethere is much danger.Jesus believed that old book to be the word of God. But he was not a"scholar." He was the son of a country joiner, and you must not expecthim to rise too far above his environment. It surprises me that the"scholars" have not called more attention to the ignorance of Jesus inthis respect. They will no doubt pay more attention to this later on;for as _Christian_ "scholars" it becomes them to be consistent, and Ihave no doubt that they will shortly, in this respect, make up for losttime.To expect that none of our young people will be influenced by thisparade of scholarship is to expect too much. But faith in Christ shouldkeep them from rushing rashly out against a book that Christ professedto live up to and came to fulfill. This battle of the scholars over thetruth of the Bible is only being fought. We have no wish that it shouldnot be fought. Everything has a right to be tested with caution andfairness, and when the battle is lost, it will be time enough for us topass over to the side of the enemy. This question as to the truth of theOld Testament will be settled, and as sure as Christ is the Son of God,and has all power in heaven and on earth, it will be settled upon thelines of the attitude which he took up towards that book, and it will besettled to the disgrace of those who professed to believe in Jesus,but deserted his position before full examination was made. That notranscriber ever made a slip, or that no translator ever made a mistake,is not held by any one. But the day that it is proved that the OldTestament is not substantially true, faith in Christ and Christianitywill get a shake from which it will never recover.We have not lost faith in the Bible. There is no need for doing so. Theword of the Lord will endure forever. But meantime, brethren, let us befaithful, prayerful, and cautious, and be not easily moved from the rockof God's word by the pretensions of "scholars" or of science, falsely socalled.I do not know that there is any necessary connection between the two,but a belief in evolution and scholarly doubts about large portions ofthe Old Testament, as a rule, go together. You must not profess to knowanything of science in many quarters if you doubt evolution. In the bulkof even religious books it is referred to as a matter that science hassettled beyond dispute. To expect that many of our young people will notbe so far carried along by this current is to expect too much. Many ofthem will be carried so far; it is a question of how many and how far.There perhaps never was a theory before believed by as many educatedpeople without proof as the theory of evolution. It is an unprovedtheory; there is not a fact beneath it. That you have low forms of life,and forms rising higher and higher till you get to man, is fact. Butthat a higher species ever came from a lower is without proof. Let thosewho doubt this say when and where such a thing took place, and name thewitnesses. Not only are there no facts in proof of it, but it flies inthe face of facts without number. If like from like is not established,then nothing can be established by observation and experience. Whatother theory do we believe which contradicts all that we know to be truein regard to the subject to which it refers?Not only does it contradict fact and experience, it contradicts reason.If you listen to the voice of reason, you can no more believe that thegreater came from the less than you can believe that something came fromnothing. We are intuitively bound to believe that an effect can not begreater than its cause. But the theory of evolution contradicts this atevery step along the whole line.I am anxious to find the truth in regard to anything that has a bearingupon my belief in God or religion. But in trying to find the truth, Ihave never regretted being true to myself. To slavishly follow othersis, to say the least of it, unmanly. I do not believe in evolutionbecause God has so made me that I can not. Wherever man came from, hesprang not from anything beneath him. When a man asks me to believe athing that has not facts, but only theory to support it,--said theorycontradicting fact, experience and reason,--he asks me more than I cangrant. The thing is absurd, and must one day die.I am agreeably surprised that we, as a people, have suffered so littleas yet from the sources of error referred to. Still they are all livingdangers, and if we would hold fast the faith once for all delivered tothe saints, we must see to our own standing, and as God has given usopportunity let us be helpful to others. Our ground is God-given andwell tested. The fellowship with God and with each other that it hasbrought to us has given us much happiness here. Let us be faithful andearnest the few years that we have to remain here, and our happinesswill be increased when the Lord comes to reward us all according to ourworks.***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A TRIP ABROAD********** This file should be named 12679.txt or 12679.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/6/7/12679Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Jervaise Comedy, by J. D. BeresfordThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Jervaise ComedyAuthor: J. D. BeresfordRelease Date: February 20, 2005 [EBook #15116]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE JERVAISE COMEDY ***Produced by Bill Tozier, Barbara Tozier, and the Online DistributedProofreading Team.THE JERVAISE COMEDYBYJ.D. BERESFORDNew YorkTHE MACMILLAN COMPANY1919CONTENTSCHAPTER      I  THE FIRST HOUR     II  ANNE    III  FRANK JERVAISE     IV  IN THE HALL      V  DAYBREAK     VI  MORNING    VII  NOTES AND QUERIES   VIII  THE OUTCAST     IX  BANKS      X  THE HOME FARM     XI  THE STORY    XII  CONVERSION   XIII  FARMER BANKS    XIV  MRS. BANKS     XV  REMEMBRANCE         POSTSCRIPT--THE TRUE STORYTHE JERVAISE COMEDYITHE FIRST HOURWhen I was actually experiencing the thrill, it came delightfully,however, blended with a threat that proclaimed the imminent consequence ofdismay. I appreciated the coming of the thrill, as a rare and unexpected"dramatic moment." I savoured and enjoyed it as a real adventure suddenlypresented in the midst of the common business of life. I imaginativelytransplanted the scene from the Hall of Thorp-Jervaise to a West-Endtheatre; and in my instant part of unoccupied spectator I admired the artwith which the affair had been staged. It is so seldom that we are givenan opportunity to witness one of these "high moments," and naturallyenough I began instinctively to turn the scene into literature; admittingwithout hesitation, as I am often forced to admit, that the detail ofreality is so much better and more typical than any I can invent.But, having said that, I wonder how far one does invent in such anexperience? The same night I hinted something of my appreciation of thedramatic quality of the stir at the Hall door to Frank Jervaise, Brenda'sbrother, and he, quite obviously, had altogether missed that aspect of theaffair. He scowled with that forensic, bullying air he is so successfullypractising at the Junior Bar, as he said, "I suppose you realise just whatthis may _mean_, to all of us?"Jervaise evidently had failed to appreciate the detail that I had relishedwith such delight. He had certainly not savoured the quality of it. And inone sense I may claim to have invented the business of the scene. I mayhave added to it by my imaginative participation. In any case myunderstanding as interpreter was the prime essential--a fact that showshow absurd it is to speak of "photographic detail" in literature, orindeed to attempt a proper differentiation between realism and romance.We were all of us in the Hall, an inattentive, chattering audience ofbetween twenty and thirty people. The last dance had been stopped at tenminutes to twelve, in order that the local parson and his wife--their namewas Sturton--might be out of the house of entertainment before the firststroke of Sunday morning. Every one was wound up to a pitch of satisfiedexcitement. The Cinderella had been a success. The floor and the music andthe supper had been good, Mrs. Jervaise had thrown off her air ofpre-occupation with some distasteful suspicion, and we had all beenentertained and happy. And yet these causes for satisfaction had beennothing more than a setting for Brenda Jervaise. It was she who hadstimulated us, given us a lead and kept us dancing to the tune of herexciting personality. She had made all the difference between anordinarily successful dance and what Mrs. Sturton at the open doorcontinually described as "a really delightful evening."She had to repeat the phrase, because with the first stroke of midnightringing out from the big clock over the stables, came also the firstintimation of the new movement. Mrs. Sturton's fly was mysteriouslydelayed; and I had a premonition even then, that the delay promised somediversion. The tone of the stable clock had its influence, perhaps. It wasso precisely the tone of a stage clock--high and pretentious, and with adisturbing suggestion of being unmelodiously flawed.Miss Tattersall, Olive Jervaise's friend, a rather abundant fair youngwoman, warmed by excitement to the realisation that she must flirt withsome one, also noticed the theatrical sound of that announcement ofmidnight. She giggled a little nervously as stroke succeeded stroke in anapparently unending succession."It seems as if it were going on all night," she said to me, in aself-conscious voice, as if the sound of the bell had some emotionaleffect upon her."It's because it's out of place," I said for the sake of saying something;"theatrical and artificial, you know. It ought to be..." I did not knowquite what it ought to be and stopped in the middle of the sentence. I wasaware of the wide open door, of the darkness beyond, and of the timidvisiting of the brilliant, chattering crowd by the fragrance of scentednight-stock--a delicate, wayward incursion that drifted past me like thespirit of some sweet, shabby fairy. What possible bell could beappropriate to that air? I began, stupidly, to recall the names of suchflowers as bluebell, hare-bell, Canterbury-bell. In imagination I heardtheir chime as the distant tinkling of a fairy musical-box.Miss Tattersall, however, took no notice of my failure to find the ideal."Yes, isn't it?" she said, and then the horrible striking ceased, and weheard little Nora Bailey across the Hall excitedly claiming that the clockhad struck thirteen."I counted most carefully," she was insisting."I can't think why that man doesn't come," Mrs. Sturton repeated in araised voice, as if she wanted to still the superstitious qualms that MissBailey had started. "I told him to come round at a quarter to twelve, sothat there shouldn't be any mistake. It's very tiresome." She paused onthat and Jervaise was inspired to the statement that the fly came from theRoyal Oak, didn't it, a fact that Mrs. Sturton had already affirmed morethan once."What makes it rather embarrassing for the dear Jervaises," MissTattersall confided to me, "is that the other things aren't ordered tillone--the Atkinsons' 'bus, you know, and the rest of 'em. Brenda persuadedMrs. Jervaise that we might go on for a bit after the vicar had gone."I wished that I could get away from Miss Tattersall; she intruded on mythoughts. I was trying to listen to a little piece that was unfolding inmy mind, a piece that began with the coming of the spirit of thenight-stock into this material atmosphere of heated, excited men andwomen. I realised that invasion as the first effort of the wild romanticnight to enter the house; after that.... After that I only knew that theconsequences were intensely interesting and that if I could but let mythoughts guide me, they would finish the story and make it exquisite."Oh! did she?" I commented automatically, and cursed myself for havingconveyed a warmth of interest I certainly did not feel."She's so enthusiastic, isn't she? Brenda, I mean," Miss Tattersall wenton, and as I listened I compared her to the stable-clock. She, too, was apersistent outrage, a hindrance to whatever it was that I was waiting for.Mrs. Sturton and her husband were coming back, with an appearance ofunwillingness, into the warmth and light of the Hall. The dear lady wasstill at her congratulations on the delightfulness of the evening, butthey were tempered, now, by a hint of apology for "spoiling it--to acertain extent--I hope I haven't--by this unfortunate contretemps."The Jervaises were uncomfortably warm in their reassurances. They felt, nodoubt, the growing impatience of all their other visitors pressing forwardwith the reminder that if the Sturtons' cab did not come at once, therewould be no more dancing.Half-way up the stairs little Nora Bailey's high laughing voice wasembroidering her statement with regard to the extra stroke of thestable-clock."I had a kind of premonition that it was going to, as soon as it began,"she was saying.Gordon Hughes was telling the old story of the sentry who had saved hislife by a similar counting of the strokes of midnight.And at the back of my mind my daemon was still thrusting out little spurtsof enthralling allegory. The Sturtons and Jervaises had been driven infrom the open. They were taking refuge in their house. Presently..."Given it up?" I remarked with stupid politeness to Miss Tattersall."They've sent John round to the stables to inquire," she told me.I do not know how she knew. "John" was the only man-servant that theJervaises employed in the house; butler, footman, valet and goodness knowswhat else."Mrs. Sturton seems to be afraid of the night-air," Miss Tattersallremarked with a complacent giggle of self-congratulation on being toomodern for such prejudices. "I simply love the night-air, don't you?" shecontinued. "I often go out for a stroll in the garden the last thing."I guessed her intention, but I was not going to compromise myself bystrolling about the Jervaise domain at midnight with Grace Tattersall."Do you? Yes," I agreed, as if I were bound to admire her originality.They are afraid of the night-air, my allegory went on, and having beguntheir retreat, they are now sending out their servant for help. I began towonder if I were composing the plot of a grand opera?John's return convinced me that I was not to be disappointed in myexpectation of drama.He came out from under the staircase through the red baize door whichdiscreetly warned the stranger that beyond this danger signal lay thesacred mysteries of the Hall's service. And he came down to the centralcluster of faintly irritated Sturtons and Jervaises, with an evidenthesitation that marked the gravity of his message. Every one was watchingthat group under the electric-lighted chandelier--it was posed to hold thestage--but I fancy that most of the audience were solely interested ingetting rid of the unhappy Sturtons.We could not hear what John said, but we inferred the general nature ofthe disaster from the response accorded to his news. The vicar merelyclicked his tongue with a frown of grave disapproval, but his wifeadvertised the disaster for us by saying,--"It's that man Carter, from the Oak, you know; not our own man. I've neverliked Carter.""Quite hopelessly, eh?" Jervaise asked John, and John's perturbed shake ofthe head answered that question beyond any doubt."In any case," Mrs. Sturton began, and I hazarded a guess that she wasgoing to refuse to drive behind Carter in any stage of intoxication; butshe decided to abandon that line and went on with a splendid imitation ofcheerfulness, "However, there's nothing to be done, now, but walk. It'squite a fine night, fortunately." She looked at her husband for approval."Oh! quite, quite," he said. "A beautiful night. Let us walk by allmeans."A general rustle of relief spread up the gallery of the staircase, and wasfollowed at once by a fresh outburst of chatter. The waiting audience ofwould-be dancers had responded like one individual. It was as if theirsingle over-soul had sighed its thankfulness and had then tried to coverthe solecism. Their relief was short-lived. Mrs. Jervaise "couldn't think"of the Sturtons walking. They must have the motor. She insisted. Reallynothing at all. Their chauffeur was sure to be up, still."Of course, certainly, by all means," Jervaise agreed warmly, and then, toJohn, "He hasn't gone to bed yet, I suppose?""I saw him not half an hour ago, sir," was John's response."Tell him to bring the motor round," Jervaise ordered, and added somethingin a lower voice, which, near as I was to them, I could not catch. Iimagined that it might be an instruction to have the chauffeur out againif he had by any chance slunk off to bed within the last half-hour.I think Miss Tattersall said "Damn!" Certainly the over-soul of thestaircase group thought it."They'll be here all night, at this rate," was my companion's translationof the general feeling."If they have to wake up the chauffeur," I admitted."He's a new man they've got," Miss Tattersall replied. "They've only hadhim three months..." It seemed as if she were about to add some furthercomment, but nothing came."Oh!" was all that I found appropriate.I felt that the action of my opera was hanging fire. Indeed, every one wasbeginning to feel it. The Hall door had been shut against the bane of thenight-air. The stimulus of the fragrant night-stock had been excluded.Miss Tattersall pretended not to yawn. We all pretended that we did notfeel a craving to yawn. The chatter rose and fell spasmodically in shortdevitalised bursts of polite effort.I looked round for Brenda, but could not see her anywhere."Won't you come back into the drawing-room?" Mrs. Jervaise was saying tothe Sturtons."Oh! thank you, it's _hardly_ worth while, is it?" Mrs. Sturton answeredeffusively, but she loosened the shawl that muffled her throat as if shewere preparing for a longer wait. "I'm _so_ sorry," she apologised for theseventh time. "So very unfortunate after such a really delightfulevening."They kept up that kind of conversation for quite a long time, while welistened eagerly for the sound of the motor-horn.And no motor-horn came; instead, after endlessly tedious minutes, Johnreturned bearing himself like a portent of disaster.The confounded fellow whispered again."What, not anywhere?" Jervaise asked irritably. "Sure he hasn't gone tobed?"John said something in that too discreet voice of his, and then Jervaisescowled and looked round at the ascending humanity of the staircase. Hisson Frank detached himself from the swarm, politely picked his way downinto the Hall, and began to put John under a severe cross-examination."What's up now, do you suppose?" Miss Tattersall asked, with the leasttremor of excitement sounding in her voice."Perhaps the chauffeur has followed the example of Carter, and afterwardshidden his shame," I suggested.I was surprised by the warmth of her contradiction. "Oh, no" she said. "Heisn't the least that sort of man." She said it as if I had aspersed thecharacter of one of her friends."He seems to have gone, disappeared, any-way," I replied."It's getting frightfully mysterious," Miss Tattersall agreed, and addedinconsequently, "He's got a strong face, you know; keen--looks as if he'dget his own way about things, though, of course, he isn't a gentleman."I had a suspicion that she had been flirting with the romantic chauffeur.She was the sort of young woman who would flirt with any one.I wished they would open that Hall door again. The action of my play hadbecome dispersed and confused. Frank Jervaise had gone off through thebaize door with John, and the Sturtons and their host and hostess weremoving reluctantly towards the drawing-room."We might almost as well go and sit down somewhere," I suggested to MissTattersall, and noted three or four accessible blanks on the staircase."Almost," she agreed after a glance at the closed door that shut out thenight.In the re-arrangement I managed to leave her on a lower step, and climbedto the throne of the gods, at present occupied only by Gordon Hughes, oneof Frank Jervaise's barrister friends from the Temple. Hughes was reputed"brilliantly clever." He was a tallish fellow with ginger red hair and along nose--the foxy type."Rum start!" I cried, by way of testing his intellectual quality, butbefore I could get on terms with him, the stage was taken by a dark,curly-haired, handsome boy of twenty-four or so, generally addressed as"Ronnie." I had thought him very like a well-intentioned retriever pup. Icould imagine him worrying an intellectual slipper to pieces with greatgusto."I say, it's all U.P. now," he said, in a dominating voice. "What's thetime?" He was obviously too well turned out to wear a watch with eveningdress.Some one said it was "twenty-five to one.""Fifty to one against another dance, then," Ronnie barked joyously."Unless you'll offer yourself up as a martyr in a good cause," suggestedNora Bailey."Offer myself up? How?" Ronnie asked."Take 'em home in your car," Nora said in a penetrating whisper."Dead the other way," was Ronnie's too patent excuse."It's only a couple of miles through the Park, you know," Olive Jervaiseput in. "You might easily run them over to the vicarage and be back againin twenty minutes.""By Jove; yes. So I might," Ronnie acknowledged. "That is, if I may reallycome back, Miss Jervaise. Awfully good of you to suggest it. I didn'tbring my man with me, though. I'll have to go and wind up the oldbuzz-wagon myself, if your fellow can't be found. Do you think ... couldany one..."He was looking round, searching for some one who was not there."Want any help?" Hughes asked."No, thanks. That's all right. I know where the car is, I mean," Ronniesaid, and still hesitated as if he were going to finish the question hehad begun in his previous speech.Olive Jervaise anticipated, I think wrongly, his remark. "They're in thedrawing-room," she said. "Will you tell them?""Better get the car round first, hadn't I?" Ronnie asked.The sandy Atkinson youth found an answer for that. He cleared his long,thin throat huskily and said, "Might save time to tell 'em first. They'dbe ready, then, when you came round." His two equally sandy sistersclucked their approval."All serene," Ronnie agreed.He was on the bottom step of the stairs when the Hall door was thrown wideopen and Frank Jervaise returned.He stood there a moment, posed for us, searching the ladder of ourgallery; and the spirit of the night-stock drifted past him and lightlytouched us all as it fled up the stairs. Then he came across the Hall, andaddressing his sister, asked, in a voice that overstressed the effect ofbeing casual, "I say, Olive, you don't happen to know where Brenda is, doyou?"I suppose our over-soul knew everything in that minute. A tremor of dismayran up our ranks like the sudden passing of a cold wind. Every one waslooking at Ronnie.Olive Jervaise's reply furnished an almost superfluous corroboration. Shecould not control her voice. She tried to be as casual as her brother, andfailed lamentably. "Brenda was here just now," she said. "She--she must besomewhere about."Ronnie, still the cynosure of the swarm, turned himself about and staredat Frank Jervaise. But it was Gordon Hughes who demonstrated his power ofquick inference and response, although in doing it he overstepped thebounds of decency by giving a voice to our suspicions."Is the car in the garage? Your own car?" he asked."Yes. Rather. Of course," Jervaise replied uneasily."You've just looked?" Hughes insisted."I know the car's there," was Jervaise's huffy evasion, and he took Ronnieby the arm and led him off into the drawing-room.The Hall door stood wide open, and the tragedy of the night flowedunimpeded through the house.Although the horror had not been named we all recognised its finality. Webegan to break up our formation immediately, gabbling tactfulirrelevancies about the delightful evening, the delinquent Carter, and thefoolishness of Sabbatarianism. Mrs. Atkinson appeared in the Hall, cloakedand muffled, and beckoned to her three replicas. She announced that theiromnibus was "just coming round."In the general downward drift of dispersion I saw Grace Tattersall lookingup at me with an expression that suggested a desire for the confidentialdiscussion of scandal, and I hastily whispered to Hughes that we might goto the extemporised buffet in the supper-room and get a whisky and seltzeror something. He agreed with an alacrity that I welcomed at the time, butregret, now, because our retirement into duologue took us out of theimportant movement, and I missed one or two essentials of the development.The truth is that we were all overcome at the moment by an irresistibledesire to appear tactful. We wanted to show the Jervaises that we had notsuspected anything, or that if we had, we didn't mind in the least, and itcertainly wasn't their fault. Nevertheless, I saw no reason why in theprivacy of the supper-room--we had the place to ourselves--I should nottalk to Hughes. I had never before that afternoon met any of the Jervaisefamily except Frank, and on one or two occasions his younger brother whowas in the army and, now, in India; and I thought that this was anappropriate occasion to improve my knowledge. I understood that Hughes wasan old friend of the family.He may have been, although the fact did not appear in his conversation;for I discovered almost immediately that he was, either by nature or byreason of his legal training, cursed with a procrastinating gift ofdiplomacy."Awkward affair!" I began as soon as we had got our whiskies and lightedcigarettes.Hughes drank with a careful slowness, put his glass down with superfluousaccuracy, and then after another instant of tremendous deliberation, said,"What is?""Well, this," I returned gravely."Meaning?" he asked judicially."Of course it may be too soon to draw an inference," I said."Especially with no facts to draw them from," he added."All the same," I went on boldly, "it looks horribly suspicious.""What does?"I began to lose patience with him. "I'm not suggesting that the Sturtons'man from the Royal Oak has been murdered," I said.He weighed that remark as if it might cover a snare, before he scored atriumph of allusiveness by replying, "Fellow called Carter. He's got ablue nose."Despite my exasperation I tried once more on a note of forced geniality,"What sort of man is this chauffeur of the Jervaises? Do you know him atall?""Wears brown leather gaiters," Hughes answered after another solemndeliberation.I could have kicked him with all the pleasure in life. His awfulguardedness made me feel as if I were an inquisitive little journalisttrying to ferret out some unsavoury scandal. And he had been the firstperson to point the general suspicion a few minutes earlier, by hisinquiry about the motor. I decided to turn the tables on him, if I couldmanage it."I asked because you seemed to suggest just now that he had gone off withthe Jervaises' motor," I remarked.Hughes stroked his long thin nose with his thumb and forefinger. It seemedto take him about a minute from bridge to nostril. Then he inhaled a longdraught of smoke from his cigarette, closed one eye as if it hurt him, andthrew back his head to blow out the smoke again with a slow gasp ofrelief."One never knows," was all the explanation he vouchsafed after thistedious performance."Whether a chauffeur will steal his master's motor?" I asked."Incidentally," he said."But, good heavens, if he's that sort of man..." I suggested."I'm not saying that he is," Hughes replied.I realised then that his idea of our conversation was nothing more norless than that of a game to be played as expertly as possible. He had allthe makings of a cabinet minister, but as a companion he was, on thisoccasion, merely annoying. I felt that I could stand no more of him, and Iwas trying to frame a sentence that would convey my opinion of him withoutactual insult, when Frank Jervaise looked in at the door.He stared at us suspiciously, but his expression commonly conveyed someaspect of threat or suspicion. "Been looking all over the place for you,"he said."For me?" Hughes asked.Jervaise shook his head. "No, I want Melhuish," he said, and stoodscowling."Well, here I am," I prompted him."If I'm in the way..." Hughes put in, but did not attempt to get himselfout of it.Jervaise ignored him. "Look here, Melhuish," he said. "I wonder if you'dmind coming up with me to the Home Farm?""Oh! no; rather not," I agreed gladly.I felt that Hughes had been scored off; but I instantly forgot such smalltriumphs in the delight of being able to get out into the night. Out therewas romance and the smell of night-stock, all kinds of wonderment andadventure. I was so eager to be in the midst of it that I never paused toconsider the queerness of the expedition.As we left the Hall, the theatrical stable-clock was just striking one.IIANNEThe moon must have been nearly at the full, but I could not guess itsposition behind the even murk of cloud that muffled the whole face of thesky. Yet, it was not very dark. The broad masses of the garden throughwhich Jervaise led me, were visible as a greater blackness superimposed ona fainter background. I believed that we were passing through some kind offormal pleasance. I could smell the pseudo-aromatic, slightly dirty odourof box, and made out here and there the clipped artificialities of a yewhedge. There were standard roses, too. One rose started up suddenly beforemy face, touching me as I passed with a limp, cool caress, like thecareless, indifferent encouragement of a preoccupied courtesan.At the end of the pleasance we came to a high wall, and as Jervaisefumbled with the fastening of a, to me, invisible door, I was expectingthat now we should come out into the open, into a paddock, perhaps, or agrass road through the Park. But beyond the wall was a kitchen garden. Itwas lighter there, and I could see dimly that we were passing down anaisle of old espaliers that stretched sturdy, rigid arms, locked finger tofinger with each other in their solemn grotesque guardianship of theenciente they enclosed. No doubt in front of them was some kind ofherbaceous border. I caught sight of the occasional spire of a hollyhock,and smelt the acid insurgence of marigolds.None of this was at all the mischievous, taunting fairyland that I hadanticipated, but rather the gaunt, intimidating home of ogres, rank andmore than a trifle forbidding. It had an air of age that was not immortal,but stiffly declining into a stubborn resistance against the slow rigidityof death. These espaliers made me think of rheumatic veterans, obstinatelyfaithful to ancient duties--veterans with knobbly arthritic joints.At the end of the aisle we came to a high-arched opening in the ten-footwall, barred by a pair of heavy iron gates."Hold on a minute, I've got the key," Jervaise said. This was the firsttime he had spoken since we left the house. His tone seemed to suggestthat he was afraid I should attempt to scale the wall or force my waythrough the bars of the gates.He had the key but he could not in that darkness fit it into the padlock;and he asked me if I had any matches. I had a little silver box of waxvestas in my pocket, and struck one to help him in his search for thekeyhole which he found to have been covered by the escutcheon. Before Ithrew the match away I held it up and glanced back across the garden. Theshadows leaped and stiffened to attention, and I flung the match away, butit did not go out. It lay there on the path throwing out its tinychallenge to the darkness. It was still burning when I looked back afterpassing through the iron gates.As we came out of the park, Jervaise took my arm."I'm afraid this is a pretty rotten business," he said with what was forhim an unusual cordiality.       *       *       *       *       *Although I had never before that afternoon seen Jervaise's home nor any ofhis people with the exception of the brother now in India, I had knownFrank Jervaise for fifteen years. We had been at Oakstone together, andhad gone up the school form by form in each other's company. After we leftOakstone we were on the same landing at Jesus, and he rowed "two" and Irowed "bow" in the college boat. And since we had come down I had met himconstantly in London, often as it seemed by accident. Yet we had neverbeen friends. I had never really liked him.Even at school he had had the beginning of the artificially bullyingmanner which now seemed natural to him. He had been unconvincingly bluntand insolent. His dominant chin, Roman nose, and black eyebrows werechiefly responsible, I think, for his assumption of arrogance. He musthave been newly invigorated to carry on the part every time he scowled athimself in the glass. He could not conceivably have been anything but abarrister.But, to-night, in the darkness, he seemed to have forgotten for once theperpetual mandate of his facial angle. He was suddenly intimate, almosthumble."Of course, you don't realise how cursedly awkward it all is," he saidwith the evident desire of opening a confidence."Tell me as little or as much as you like," I responded. "You know thatI...""Yes, rather," he agreed warmly, and added, "I'd sooner Hughes didn'tknow.""He guesses a lot, though," I put in. "I suppose they all do.""Oh! well, they're bound to guess something," he said, "but I'm hopingwe'll be able to put that right, now.""Who are we going to see?" I asked.He did not reply at once, and then snapped out, "Anne Banks; friend erBrenda's."My foolishly whimsical imagination translated that queer medley of soundsinto the thought of a stable-pump. I heard the clank of the handle andthen the musical rush of water into the pail."Sounds just like a pump," I said thoughtlessly.He half withdrew his arm from mine with an abrupt twitch that indicatedtemper."Oh! don't for God's sake play the fool," he said brutally.A spasm of resentment shook me for a moment. I felt annoyed, rememberinghow at school he would await his opportunity and then score off me withsome insulting criticism. He had never had any kind of sympathy for thewhimsical, and it is a manner that is apt to look inane and ridiculousunder certain kinds of censure. I swallowed my annoyance, on thisoccasion. I remembered that Jervaise had a reasonable excuse, for once."Sorry," I said. "I didn't mean to play the fool. But you must admit thatit had a queer sound." I repeated the adjectival sentence under my breath.It really was a rather remarkable piece of onomatopoeia. And then Ireflected on the absurdity of our conversation. How could we achieve allthis ordinary trivial talk of everyday in the gloom of this romanticadventure?"Oh! all serene," Jervaise returned, still with the sound of irritation inhis voice, and continued as if the need for confidence had suddenlyoverborne his anger. "As a matter of fact she's his sister.""Whose sister?" I asked, quite at a loss."Oh! Banks's, of course," he said."But who in the name of goodness is Banks?" I inquired irritably. Thepetulant tone was merely an artifice. I realised that if I were meek, hewould lose more time in abusing my apparent imbecility. I know that theone way to beat a bully is by bullying, but I hate even the pretence ofthat method.Jervaise grunted as if the endeavour to lift the weight of my ignorancerequired an almost intolerable physical effort."Why, this fellow--our chauffeur," he said in a voice so threateninglyrestrained that he seemed on the point of bursting.There was no help for it; I had to take the upper hand."Well, my good idiot," I said, "you can't expect me to know these thingsby intuition. I've never heard of the confounded fellow before. Haven'teven seen him, now. Nor his sister--Anne Banks, Frienderbrenda's."Jervaise was calmed by this outburst. This was the sort of attitude hecould understand and appreciate."All right, keep your shirt on," he replied quite amicably."If you'd condescend to explain," I returned as huffily as I could."You see, this chap, Banks," he began, "isn't quite the ordinary chauffeurJohnnie. He's the son of one of our farmers. Decent enough old fellow,too, in his way--the father, I mean. Family's been tenants of the HomeFarm for centuries. And this chap, Banks, the son, has knocked about theworld, no end. Been in Canada and the States and all kinds of weirdplaces. He's hard as nails; and keen. His mother was a Frenchwoman; been agoverness.""Is she dead?" I asked."Lord, no. Why should she be?" Jervaise replied peevishly.I thought of explaining that he had made the implication by his use of thepast tense, but gave up the idea as involving a waste of energy. "How oldis this chap, Banks; the son?" I asked."I don't know," Jervaise said. "About twenty-five.""And his sister?" I prodded him."Rather younger than that," he said, after an evident hesitation, andadded: "She's frightfully pretty."I checked my natural desire to comment on the paradox; and tried thestimulation of an interested "_Is_ she?""Rather." He tacked that on in the tone of one who deplores theinevitable; and went on quickly, "You needn't infer that I've made an assof myself or that I'm going to. In our position..." He abandoned that asbeing, perhaps, too obvious. "What I mean to say is," he continued, "thatI can't understand about Brenda. And it was such an infernally silly wayof going about things. Admitted that there was no earthly chance of thepater giving his consent or anything like it; she needn't in any case havemade a damned spectacle of the affair. But that's just like her. Probablydid it all because she wanted to be dramatic or some rot."It was then that I expressed my appreciation of the dramatic quality ofthe incident, and was snubbed by his saying,--"I suppose you realise just what this may mean, to all of us."I had a vivid impression, in the darkness, of that sudden scowl which madehim look so absurdly like a youthful version of Sir Edward Carson.I was wondering why it should mean so much to all of them? Frank Jervaisehad admitted, for all intents and purposes, that he was in love with thechauffeur's sister, so he, surely, need not have so great an objection.And, after all, why was the family of Jervaise so much better than thefamily of Banks?"I suppose it would be very terrible for you all if she married thischap?" I said."Unthinkable," Jervaise replied curtly."It would be worse in a way than your marrying the sister?""I should never be such an infernal fool as to do a thing like that," hereturned."Has she ... have there been any tender passages between you and MissBanks?" I asked."No," he snapped viciously."You've been too careful?""As a matter of fact, I don't think she likes me," he said."Oh!" was all my comment.I needed no more explanations; and I liked Jervaise even less than I hadbefore. I began to wish that he had not seen fit to confide in me. I had,thoughtlessly, been dramatising the incident in my mind, but, now, I wasaware of the unpleasant reality of it all. Particularly Jervaise's part init."Can't be absolutely certain, of course," he continued."But if she did like you?" I suggested."I've got to be very careful who I marry," he explained. "We aren'tparticularly well off. All our property is in land, and you know what sortof an investment that is, these days."I tried another line. "And if you find your sister up at the Home Farm;and Banks; what are you going to do?""Kick him and bring her home," he said decidedly."Nothing else for it, I suppose?" I replied."Obviously," he snarled.We had come into a wood and it was very dark under the trees. I wonderedwhy I should restrain the impulse to strangle him and leave him there? Hewas no good, and, to me, quite peculiarly objectionable. It seemed, inwhat was then my rather fantastic state of mind, that it would be atriumph of whimsicality. I should certainly have resisted the impulse inany case, but my attention was diverted from it at that moment by a suddenpattering of feet along the leaves of the great trees under which we werewalking--light, clean, sharp, little dancing feet, springing from leaf toleaf--dozens of them chasing each other, rattling ecstatically up and downthe endless terraces of wide foliage."Damn it all, it's beginning to rain like blazes," remarked the foolishJervaise."How much farther is it?" I asked.He said we were "just there."       *       *       *       *       *I saw the Home Farm first as a little square haze of yellow light far upin the sky. I didn't realise the sharp rise in the ground immediately infront of us, and that rectangular beacon, high in the air, seemed afantastically impossible thing. I pointed it out to Jervaise who washolding his head down as if he were afraid the summer rain might do someserious injury to his face."Some one up, anyway," was his comment."Very far up," I murmured. I could not quite believe, even then, that itcould be a window. I was disappointed when we had climbed the hill andstood only a few feet below the beacon, to discover that this too, wasanother instance of the all too credible commonplace. I suppose men likeFrank Jervaise never long to believe in the impossible. I was, however,agreeably surprised to find that he could be nervous.He hesitated, looking up at the prism of light that splayed out throughthe first floor window, and set a silver fire to the falling rain."Suppose we'd better knock," he grumbled."D'you know whose window it is?" I asked.Apparently he didn't. He made a dive into a deeper obscurity and I losthim until I heard his knock. I was glad that he should have knocked withsuch decent restraint, but all the effect of it was instantly shattered bythe response. For at his first subdued rap, a dog with a penetratinglystrident bark set up a perfectly detestable clamour within the house. Itwas just as if Jervaise's touch on the door had liberated the spring ofsome awful rattle. Every lovely impulse of the night must have fleddismayed, back into the peace and beauty of the wood; and I was more thanhalf inclined to follow.Until that appalling racket was set loose I had been regarding thismidnight visit to the farm as a natural and enticing adventure, altogetherin keeping with the dramatic movement preluded by the chime of thestable-clock. That confounded terrier, whose voice so clearly proclaimedhis breed, had dragged us down to the baldest realism. We were intrudersupon the decencies of civilisation. That dog was not to be misled by anyfoolish whimsies of the imagination. He was a thorough-going realist,living in a tangible, smellable world of reality, and he knew us for whatwe were--marauders, disturbers of the proper respectable peace oftwentieth century farms. He lashed himself into ecstasies of fury againstour unconventionality; he rose to magnificent paroxysms of protest thatpassionately besought High Heaven and Farmer Banks to open the door andlet him get at us.But no one came. There may have been other sounds coming from the housebesides that infuriated demand for vengeance, but all inferior noises--andsurely all other noises must have been inferior to that clamour--wereabsorbed and flattened out of existence. We were in a world occupied bythe bark of a single dog, and any addition to that occupation would havebeen superfluous.The owner of the voice was doing his level best now to get the door downon his own account. I hoped he might succeed. I should have excuse then tofly to the woods and claim sanctuary. As it was, I retreated a couple ofsteps, holding my breath to ease the pain of my nerves, and some oldinstinct of prayer made me lift my face to the sky. I welcomed the cold,inquisitive touch of the silent rain.Then I became aware through the torture of prolonged exasperation that myupturned face was lit from above; that a steady candle was now perched onthe very sill of the one illuminated window; and that behind the candlethe figure of a woman stood looking down at me.She appeared to be speaking.I held my hands to my ears and shook my head violently to intimate mytemporary deafness; and the figure disappeared, leaving the placid candleto watch me as it seemed with a kind of indolent nonchalance.I decided to pass on the news to Jervaise, and discovered that besottedfool in a little trellised porch, stimulating the execrations of the Irishterrier by a subdued inaudible knocking. I was beginning to scream my newsinto his ear when silence descended upon us with the suddenness of acatastrophe. It was as if the heavens had been rent and all the earth hadfallen into a muffled chaos of mute despair.I had actually began my shriek of announcement when all the world of soundabout us so inexplicably ceased to be, and I shut off instantly on theword "_Someone_...," a word that as I had uttered it sounded like adespairing yelp of mortal agony.Out of the unearthly stillness, Jervaise's voice replied in a frightenedmurmur, "Someone coming," he said, as if he, alone, had knowledge of andresponsibility for that supreme event.And still no one came. The door remained steadfastly closed. Outside theporch, the earth had recovered from the recent disaster, and we could hearthe exquisitely gentle murmur of the rain."Damned odd," commented Jervaise. "That cursed dog made enough noise towake the dead."I was inspired to go out and search the window where burned the indigent,just perceptibly, rakish candle.She was there. She had returned to her eyrie after quelling the racket inthe hall, and now she leaned a little forward so that I could see herface."Who's there?" she asked quietly.Her voice was low and clear as the reed of a flute, but all sounds had thequality of music at that instant of release.I was nonplussed for the moment. I ought to have taken up the key of highromance. She deserved it. Instead of that I dropped to the awfulcommonplaces of a man in evening dress and a light overcoat standing inthe rain talking to a stranger."I came up with Mr. Jervaise, Mr. Frank Jervaise," I explained. "He--hewants to see you. Shall I tell him you're there?""All serene, I'm here," whispered the voice of Jervaise at my elbow, andthen he cleared his throat and spoke up at the window."Rather an upset down at the Hall, Miss Banks; about Brenda," he said."Might we come in a minute?""It's rather late, isn't it?" the vision returned--it wasn't only the easeof the silence, she had a delicious voice--and added rather mischievously,"It's raining, isn't it?""Like anything," Jervaise said, and ducked his head and hunched hisshoulders, as if he had suddenly remembered the possible susceptibility ofhis exposed face."Is it so very important?" the soft, clear voice asked, still, I thought,with a faint undercurrent of raillery."Really, Miss Banks, it is," Jervaise implored, risking his delicate faceagain.She hesitated a moment and then said, "Very well," and disappeared, takingthis time the dissipated candle with her. I heard her address a minatoryremark within the room to "Racket"--most excellently described, I thought;though I discovered later that I had, in imagination, misspelt him, sincehe owed his name to the fact that his mother had sought her delivery onthe bed of a stored tennis-net.Jervaise and I hurried back to the front door as if we were afraid thatMiss Banks might get there first; but she kept us waiting for somethinglike ten minutes before she came downstairs. The silence of that intervalwas only broken by such nervous staccato comments as "Long time!""Dressing, presumably," and occasional throaty sounds of impatience fromJervaise that are beyond the representative scope of typography. I haveheard much the same noises proceed from the throat of an unhopeful pigengaged in some minor investigation.The rain was falling less heavily, and towards the west a pale blur oflight was slowly melting its way through the darkness. I noted that spotas marking the probable position of the setting moon. I decided that assoon as this infernal inquisition was over, I would get rid of Jervaiseand find some God-given place in which I might wait for the dawn. I knewthat there must be any number of such places between the Farm and theHall. I was peering westward towards the rolling obscurity of hills andwoods that were just beginning to bulk out of the gloom, when I heard theclick of the door latch.I should not like to be put in the witness-box and cross-examined byJervaise as to my reason for entering the house with him that night. Allthat part of me with which I have any sort of real friendship, wantedquite definitely to stay outside. That would have been the tactful thingto do. There was no reason why I should intrude further on the mystery ofBrenda's disappearance; and as a matter of fact I was no longer verykeenly interested in that brilliant and fascinating young woman's affairs.The plan that I had in mind when the door opened was to say politely toJervaise, "I'll wait for you here"--I had a premonition that he wouldraise no objection to that suggestion--and then when he and Miss Bankswere safely inside, I meant to go and find rapture in solitude. The moonwas certainly coming out; the dawn was due in three hours or so, andbefore me were unknown hills and woods. I had no sort of doubt that Ishould find my rapture. I may add that my plan did not include any furthersight of Jervaise, his family, or their visitors, before breakfast nextmorning.I had it all clear and settled. I was already thrilling with the firstecstasies of anticipation. But when the door was opened I turned my backon all that magical beauty of the night, and accompanied Jervaise into thehouse like a scurvy little mongrel with no will of its own.I can't account for that queer change of purpose. It was purelyspontaneous, due to something quite outside the realm of reason. I wascertainly not in love with Anne, then. My only sight of her had left animpression as of an amateur copy of a Rembrandt done in Indian ink with awet brush. It is true that I had heard her voice like the low thrilling ofa nightingale--following a full Handel chorus of corncrakes.       *       *       *       *       *She had evidently spent an active ten minutes while we waited for her. Shehad done her hair, and she was, so far as I could judge fromsuperficialities, completely dressed. Also she had lighted the lamp inwhat I took to be the chief sitting-room of the farm.As a room it deserved attention, but it was not until I had been there forten minutes or more, that I realised all that the furniture of that roomwas not. My first observations were solely directed to Miss Banks.Jervaise had grossly maligned her by saying that she was "frightfullypretty." No one but a fool would have called her "pretty." Either she wasbeautiful or plain. I saw, even then, that if the light of her soul hadbeen quenched, she might appear plain. Her features were good, hercomplexion, her colouring--she was something between dark and fair--butshe did not rely on those things for her beauty. It was the glow of herindividuality that was her surpassing charm. She had that supremelyfeminine vitality which sends a man crazy with worship. You had to adoreor dislike her. There was no middle course.And Jervaise quite obviously adored her. All that tactful confession ofhis in the park had been a piece of artifice. It had not, however, beenframed to deceive _me_. I do not believe that he considered me worthbothering about. No, those admissions and denials of his had beenaddressed, without doubt, to a far more important person than myself. Theyhad been in the nature of a remonstrance and assurance spoken to FrankJervaise by the heir to the estate; which heir was determined with all theforce of his ferocious nose and dominant chin to help him, that he wouldnot make a fool of himself for the sake of the daughter of a tenantfarmer. I had been nothing more than the register upon which he hadtentatively engraved that resolve. But he should have chosen a more stabletestament than this avowal made to a whimsically-minded playwright with anabsurd weakness for the beauties of a midnight wood.And if I had been a witness to his oath, I was, now, a witness to hisforeswearing.He began well enough on the note proper to the heir of Jervaise. He hadthe aplomb to carry that off. He stood on the hearthrug, austere andself-controlled, consciously aristocrat, heir and barrister."I'm so sorry, Miss Banks. Almost inexcusable to disturb you at this timeof night." He stopped after that beginning and searched his witness with astare that ought to have set her trembling.Anne had sat down and was resting her forearms on the table. She looked upat him with the most charming insouciance when he paused so portentouslyat the very opening of his address. Her encouraging "yes" was rather inthe manner of a child waiting for the promised story.Jervaise frowned and attempted the dramatic. "My sister, Brenda, has runaway," he said."When?""This evening at the end of the Cinderella. You knew we were giving adance?""But where to?""Oh! Precisely!" Jervaise said."But how extraordinary!" replied Miss Banks."Is she here?" asked Jervaise. He ought to have snapped that outviciously, and I believe that was his intention. But Anne's exquisitelyinnocent, absorbed gaze undid him; and his question had rather the soundof an apology."No, certainly not! Why ever should she come here?" Anne said withprecisely the right nuance of surprise."Is your brother here?""No!"It looks such an absurd little inexpressive word on paper, but Anne made asong of it on two notes, combining astonishment with a sincerity that wasabsolutely final. If, after that, Jervaise had dared to say, "Are yousure?" I believe I should have kicked him.How confounded he was, was shown by the change of attitude evident in hisnext speech."It's horribly awkward," he said."Oh! horribly," Anne agreed, with a charming sympathy. "What are you goingto do?""You see, we can't find your brother, either," Jervaise tried tactfully."I don't quite see what that's got to do with Brenda," Anne remarked witha sweet perplexity.Apparently Jervaise did not wish to point the connection too abruptly. "Wewanted the car," he said; "and we couldn't find him anywhere.""Oh! he's almost sure to have gone to sleep up in the woods," Annereplied. "Arthur's like that, you know. He sort of got the habit in Canadaor somewhere. He often says that sometimes he simply can't bear to sleepunder a roof."I had already begun to feel a liking for Anne's brother, and that speechof hers settled me. I knew that "Arthur" was the right sort--or, at least,my sort. I would have been willing, even then, to swap the whole Jervaisefamily with the possible exception of Brenda, for this as yet unknownArthur Banks.Jervaise's diplomacy was beginning to run very thin."You don't think it conceivable that Brenda..." he began gloomily."That Brenda what?""I was going to say...""Yes?" She leaned a little forward with an air of expectancy thatdisguised her definite refusal to end his sentences for him."It's a most difficult situation, Miss Banks," he said, starting a newline; "and we don't in the least know what to make of it. What on earthcould induce Brenda to run off like this, with no apparent object?""But how do you know she really has?" asked Anne. "You haven't told meanything, yet, have you? I mean, she may have gone out into the Park toget cool after the dance, or into the woods or anything. Why should youimagine that she has--run away?"I joined in the conversation, then, for the first time. I had not evenbeen introduced to Anne."That's very reasonable, surely, Jervaise," I said. "And wouldn't it--Ihardly know her, I'll admit--but wouldn't it be rather like your sister?"So far as I was concerned, Anne's suggestion carried conviction. I wassuddenly sure that our suspicions were all a mistake.Jervaise snubbed me with a brief glance of profoundest contempt. Heprobably intended that commentary on my interruption to go no further; buthis confounded pose of superiority annoyed me to the pitch ofexasperation."You see, my dear chap," I continued quickly, "your unfortunate trainingas a lawyer invariably leads you to suspect a crime; and you overlook theobvious in your perfectly unreasonable and prejudiced search for theincriminating."Jervaise's expression admirably conveyed his complete boredom with me andmy speeches."You don't know anything about it," he said, with a short gesture of finaldismissal."But, Mr. Jervaise," Anne put in, "what can you possibly suspect, in thiscase?""He'd suspect anything of anybody for the sake of making a case of it," Isaid, addressing Anne. I wanted to make her look at me, but she kept hergaze fixed steadily on Jervaise, as if he were the controller of alldestinies.I accepted my dismissal, then, so far as to keep silence, but I wasannoyed, now, with Anne, as well as with Jervaise. "What on earth couldshe see in the fellow?" I asked myself irritably. I was the more irritatedbecause he had so obviously already forgotten my presence."Have you no reason to suspect anything yourself, Miss Banks?" he askedgravely."If you're suggesting that Brenda and Arthur have run away together," shesaid, "I'm perfectly, perfectly certain that you're wrong, Mr. Jervaise.""Do you mean that you know for certain that they haven't?" he returned.She nodded confidently, and I thought she had perjured herself, untilJervaise with evident relief said, "I'm very glad of that; very. Do youmind telling me how you know?""By intuition," she said, without a trace of raillery in her face or hertone.I forgave her for ignoring me when she said that. I felt that I couldalmost forgive Jervaise; he was so deliciously sold."But you've surely some other grounds for certainty besides--intuition?"he insisted anxiously."What other grounds could I possibly have?" Anne asked."They haven't, either of them, confided in you?""Confided? What sort of things?""That there was, or might be, any--any sort of understanding betweenthem?""I know that they have met--occasionally.""Lately! Where?""Brenda has been having lessons in driving the motor.""Oh! yes, I know that. You didn't mean that they had been meeting here?""No, I didn't mean that," Anne said definitely. All through that quickalternation of question and answer she had, as it were, surrendered hergaze to him; watching him with a kind of meek submission as if she wereready to do anything she could to help him in his inquiry. And it was veryplain to me that Jervaise was flattered and pleased by her attitude. If Ihad attempted Anne's method, he would have scowled and brow-beaten meunmercifully, but now he really looked almost pleasant."It's very good of you to help me like this, Miss Banks," he said, "andI'm very grateful to you. I do apologise, most sincerely for dragging youout of bed at such an unholy hour, but I'm sure you appreciate my--ouranxiety.""Oh! of course," she agreed, with a look that I thought horriblysympathetic.I began to wonder if my first estimate of her--based to a certain extent,perhaps, on Jervaise's admission that she did not like him--had not beenconsiderably too high. She might, after all, be just an ordinary charmingwoman, enlivened by a streak of minx, and eager enough to catch the heirof Jervaise if he were available. How low my thought of her must have sunkat that moment! But they were, now, exchanging courtesies with an air thatgave to their commonplaces the effect of a flirtation.I distracted my attention. I couldn't help hearing what they said, but Icould refrain from looking at Anne. She was becoming vivacious, and Ifound myself strangely disliking her vivacity. It was then that I began totake note of the furnishing of the room which, when I considered it, wasso peculiarly not in the manner of the familiar English farm-house.Instead of the plush suite, the glass bell shades, the round centre table,and all the other stuffy misconceptions so firmly established by thecivilisation of the nineteenth century, I discovered the authentic marksof the old English aesthetic--whitewashed walls and black oak. And thedresser, the settles, the oblong table, the rush-bottomed chairs, the bigchest by the side wall, all looked sturdily genuine; venerably consciousof the boast that they had defied the greedy collector and would continueto elude his most insidious approaches. Here, they were in their propersurroundings. They gave the effect of having carelessly lounged in andsettled themselves; they were like the steady group of "regulars" in theparlour of their familiar inn.I came out of my reflection on the furniture to find that Jervaise wasgoing, at last. He was smiling and effusive, talking quickly aboutnothing, apologising again for the unseemliness of our visit. Anne waspathetically complacent, accepting and discounting his excuses, andprofessing her willingness to help in any way she possibly could. "But Ireally and truly expect you'll find Brenda safe at home when you getback," she said, and I felt that she honestly believed that."I hope so; I hope so," Jervaise responded, and then they mostunnecessarily shook hands.I thought that it was time to assert myself above the clatter of theirfarewells."We might add, Miss Banks," I put in, "that we've been making a perfectlyabsurd fuss about nothing at all. But, no doubt, you're used to that."She looked at me, then, for the first time since I had come into thehouse; and I saw the impulse to some tart response flicker in her face anddie away unexpressed. We stood and stared at one another for a longhalf-second or so; and when she looked away I fancied that there wassomething like fear in her evasion. It seemed to me that I saw the truespirit of her in the way her glance refused me as some one with whom shedid not care to sport. Her voice, too, dropped, so that I could not catchthe murmur of her reply.We had, indeed, recognised each other in that brief meeting of our eyes.Some kind of challenge had passed between us. I had dared her to drop thatdisguise of trickery and show herself as she was; and her response hadbeen an admission that she acknowledged not me, but my recognition of her.How far the fact that I had truly appraised her real worth might influenceher, in time, to think gently of me, I could not guess; but I hoped, evena little vaingloriously, that she would respond to our mutual appreciationof truth. I had shown her, I believed, how greatly I admired the spiritshe had been at such pains to conceal during that talk in the honestsitting-room of the Home Farm. And I felt that her failure to resent theimpertinence of my "No doubt, you're used to that," had been due to anunderstanding of something she and I had in common against the wholesolid, stolid, aristocratic family of Jervaise.Moreover, she gave me what I counted as two more causes for hopefulnessbefore we left the house. The first was her repetition, given, now, with amore vibrating sincerity, of the belief that we should find Brenda safelyat home when we got back to the Hall."I feel sure you will, Mr. Jervaise," she said, and the slight pucker ofanxiety between her eyebrows was an earnest that even if her belief was alittle tremulous, her hope, at least, was unquestionably genuine.The second sign was the acceptance of a hackneyed commonplace; the profferof a friendly message through the medium of a cliche which, however falsein its general application, offered a short cut to the interpretation offeeling. Racquet who had maintained a well-bred silence from the firstmoment of his mistress's reproof, had honoured me with his approval whilewe sat in the farm-house sitting-room, and sealed the agreement by afriendly thrust of his nose as we said "Goodnight."Anne did not look at me as she spoke, but her soft comment, "You are fondof dogs," seemed to me a full acknowledgment of our recognition of eachother's quality.I must admit, however, that at two o'clock in the morning one's sense ofvalues is not altogether normal.IIIFRANK JERVAISEI should have preferred to maintain a thoughtful, experiencing silencethroughout our walk home. I had plenty of material for reflection. Iwanted, now, to look at all this disappearing Brenda business from a newangle. I had a sense of the weaving of plots, and of the texture of them;such a sense as I imagine a blind man may get through sensitivefinger-tips. Two new characters had come into my play, and I knew themboth for principals. That opening act without Brenda, Arthur Banks, or hissister was nothing more than a prologue. The whole affair had begun againto fascinate my interest. Moreover, I was becoming aware of a stern,half-tragic background that had not yet come into proper focus.And the circumstances of our walk home were of a kind that I findpeculiarly stimulating to the imagination. The sky was clearing. Above us,widening pools of deep sky, glinting here and there, with the weakradiance of half-drowned stars, opened and closed again behind dispersingwreaths of mist. While in the west, a heaped indigo gloom that might inthat light have been mistaken for the silhouette of a vast impendingforest, revealed at one edge a thin haze of yellow silver that stretchedweak exploring arms of light towards the mysterious obscurity of the upperclouds. I knew precisely how that sky would look at sunset, but at moonsetit had a completely different quality that was at once more ethereal andmore primitive. It seemed to me that this night-sky had the original,eternal effect of all planetary space; that it might be found under theleaping rings of Saturn or in the perpetual gloom of banished Neptune.Compared to the comprehensible, reproducible effects of sunlight, it wasas the wonder of the ineffable to the beauty of a magnificent picture.But I was not left for many minutes to the rapture of contemplation. Eventhe primitive had to give place to the movement of our tiny, civiliseddrama. Jervaise and I were of the race that has been steadily creating afiction of the earth since the first appearance of inductive science inthe days of prehistoric man; and we could not live for long outside theartificial realism of the thing we were making. We were not the creaturesof a process, but little gods in a world-pantheon.       *       *       *       *       *I made no attempt to check him when he began to talk. I knew by the raisedtone of his voice--he was speaking quite a third above his ordinarypitch--that he was pleasantly excited by our interview with Anne: anexcitement that he now wished either to conceal, or, if that wereimpossible, to attribute to another cause."It occurs to me that there are one or two very puzzling points about thatvisit of ours, Melhuish," he began."At least two," I agreed."Which are?" he asked."I'd prefer to hear yours first," I said, having no intention ofdisplaying my own.He was so eager to exhibit his cleverness that he did not press me for myprobably worthless deductions."Well, in the first place," he said, "did it strike you as a curious factthat Miss Banks, and she alone, was apparently disturbed by that dog'sinfernal barking?""It hadn't struck me," I admitted; and just because I had not remarkedthat anomaly for myself, I was instantly prepared to treat it as unworthyof notice. "I suppose her father and mother and the servants, and so on,heard her let us in," I said.Jervaise jeered at that. "Oh! my good man," he said."Well, why not?" I returned peevishly."I put it to you," he said, "whether in those circumstances the family'srefusal to make an appearance admits of any ordinary explanation?"I could see, now, that it did not; but having committed myself to a pointof view, I determined to uphold it. "Why _should_ they come down?" Iasked."Common curiosity would be a sufficient inducement, I should imagine,"Jervaise replied with a snort of contempt, "to say nothing of a reasonableanxiety to know why any one should call at two o'clock in the morning. Itisn't usual, you know--outside the theatrical world, perhaps."I chose to ignore the sneer conveyed by his last sentence."They may be very heavy sleepers," I tried, fully aware of the inanity ofmy suggestion.Jervaise laughed unpleasantly, a nasty hoot of derision. "Don't be adamned fool," he said. "The human being isn't born who could sleep throughthat hullabaloo."I relinquished that argument as hopeless, and having no other at themoment, essayed a weak reprisal. "Well, what's your explanation?" I askedin the tone of one ready to discount any possible explanation he mighthave to make."It's obvious," he returned. "There can be only one. They were expectingus.""Do you mean that Miss Banks was deliberately lying to us all the time?" Ichallenged him with some heat."Why that?" he asked."Well, if she were expecting us...""Which she never denied.""And had warned all her people...""As she had a perfect right to do.""It makes her out a liar, in effect," I protested. "I mean, she implied,if she didn't actually state, that she knew nothing whatever of yoursister's movements.""Which may have been true," he remarked in the complacent tone of one whowaits to formulate an unimpeachable theory."Good Lord! How?" I asked."Brenda may have been expected and not have arrived," he explained,condescending, at last, to point out all the obvious inferences I hadmissed. "In which case, my friend, Miss Banks's _suppressio veri_ was, inmy judgment, quite venial. Indeed, she was, if the facts are, as Isuppose, perfectly honest in her surprise. Let us assume that she hadarranged to let Brenda in, at say twelve-thirty, and having her father andmother under her thumb, had warned them to take no notice if Racquetstarted his cursed shindy in the middle of the night. The servant may havebeen told that Mr. Arthur might be coming. You will notice, also, thatMiss Banks had not, at one-thirty, gone to bed, although we may infer thatshe had undressed. Furthermore, it is a fair assumption that she saw uscoming, and having, by then given up, it may be, any hope of seeingBrenda, she was, no doubt, considerably at a loss to account for ourpresence. Now, does that or does it not cover the facts, and does itacquit Miss Banks of the charge of perjury?"I was forced, something reluctantly, to concede an element of probabilityin his inferences, although his argument following the legal tradition wasbased on a kind of average law of human motive and took no account ofpersonal peculiarities. He did not try to consider what Anne would do incertain circumstances, but what would be done by that vaguely-conceivedhermaphrodite who figures in the Law Courts and elsewhere as "Anyone." Icould hear Jervaise saying, "I ask you, gentlemen, what would you havedone, what would Anyone have done in such a case as this?""Hm!" I commented, and added, "It still makes Miss Banks appearrather--double-faced.""Can't see it," Jervaise replied. "Put yourself in her place and see howit works!""Oh! Lord!" I murmured, struck by the grotesque idea of Jervaiseattempting to see life through the eyes of Anne. Imagine a rhinocerosthinking itself into the experiences of a skylark!Jervaise bored ahead, taking no notice of my interruption. "Assuming forthe moment the general probability of my theory," he said, "mayn't wehazard the further assumption that Brenda was going to the farm in thefirst instance to meet Banks? His sister, we will suppose, being willingto sanction such a more or less chaperoned assignation. Then, when thepair didn't turn up, she guesses that the meeting is off for some reasonor another, but obviously her friendship for Brenda--to say nothing ofloyalty to her brother--would make her conceal the fact of the proposedassignation from us. Would you call that being 'double-faced'? Ishouldn't.""Oh! yes; it's all very reasonable," I agreed petulantly. "But how does itaffect the immediate situation? Do you, for instance, expect to find yoursister at home when we get back?""I do," assented Jervaise definitely. "I believe that Miss Banks had somegood reason for being so sure that we should find her there."I am not really pig-headed. I may not give way gracefully to such anopponent as Jervaise, but I do not stupidly persist in a personal opinionthrough sheer obstinacy. And up to Jervaise's last statement, his generaldeductions were, I admitted to myself, not only within the bounds ofprobability but, also, within distance of affording a tolerableexplanation of Anne's diplomacy during our interview. But--and I secretlycongratulated myself on having exercised a subtler intuition in this oneparticular, at least--I did not believe that Anne expected us to findBrenda at the Hall on our return. I remembered that anxious pucker of thebrow and the pathetic insistence on the belief--or might it not better bedescribed as a hope?--that Brenda had done nothing final."You haven't made a bad case," I conceded; "but I differ as to your lastinference.""You don't think we shall find Brenda at home?""I do not," I replied aggressively.I expected him to bear me down under a new weight of argument founded onthe psychology of Anyone, and I was startled when he suddenly dropped thelawyer and let out a whole-hearted "Damnation," that had a ring of finesincerity.I changed my tone instantly in response to that agreeably human note."I may be quite mistaken, of course," I said. "I hope to goodness I am. Bythe way, do you know if she has taken any luggage with her?""Can't be sure," Jervaise said. "Olive's been looking and there doesn'tseem to be anything missing, but we've no idea what things she broughtdown from town with her. If she'd been making plans beforehand..."We came out of the wood at that point in our discussion, and almost at thesame moment the last barrier of cloud slipped away from before the moon.She was in her second quarter, and seemed to be indolently rolling downtowards the horizon, the whole pose of the scene giving her the effect ofbeing half-recumbent.I turned and looked at Jervaise and found him facing me with the fulllight of the moon on his face. He was frowning, not with the domineeringscowl of the cross-examining counsel, but with a perplexed, inquiringfrown that revealed all the boy in him.Once at Oakstone he had got into a serious scrape that had begun inbravado and ended by a public thrashing. He had poached a trout from thewaters of a neighbouring landowner, who had welcomed the opportunity tomake himself more than usually objectionable. And on the morning beforehis thrashing, Jervaise had come into my study and confessed to me that hewas dreading the coming ordeal. He was not afraid of the physical pain, hetold me, but of the shame of the thing. We were near to becoming friendsthat morning. He confessed to no one but me. But when the affair wasover--he bore himself very well--he resumed his usual airs of superiority,and snubbed me when I attempted to sympathise with him.And I saw, now, just the same boyish dread and perplexity that I had seenwhen he made his confession to me at Oakstone. He looked to me, indeed,absurdly unchanged by the sixteen years that had separated the twoexperiences."You know, Melhuish," he said; "I'm not altogether blaming Brenda in oneway.""Do you think she's really in love with Banks?" I asked."I don't know," he said. "How can any one know? But it has been going on along time--weeks, anyhow. They were all getting nervous about it at home.The mater told me when I came down this afternoon. She wanted me to talkto B. about it. I was going to. She doesn't take any notice of Olive.Never has." He stopped and looked at me with an appeal in his face thatbegged contradiction.We were standing still in the moonlight at the edge of the wood and theaccident of our position made me wonder if Jervaise's soul also hesitatedbetween some gloomy prison of conventional success and the freedom ofbeautiful desires. I could find no words, however, to press thatspeculation and instead I attempted, rather nervously, to point the waytowards what I regarded as the natural solution of the immediate problem."Come," I said, "the idea of a marriage between Banks and your sisterdoesn't appear so unreasonable. The Bankses are evidently good old yeomanstock on the father's side. It is a mere accident of luck that you shouldbe the owners of the land and not they.""Theoretically, yes!" he said with a hint of impatience. "But we've got toconsider the opinions--prejudices, if you like--of all my people--to saynothing of the neighbours.""Oh! put the neighbours first," I exclaimed. "It's what we think otherpeople will think that counts with most of us.""It isn't," Jervaise returned gloomily. "You don't understand what theidea of family means to people like my father and mother. They've beenbrought up in it. It has more influence with them than religion. They'dprefer any scandal to a mesalliance.""In your sister's case?" I put in, a trifle shocked by the idea of thescandal, and then discovered that he had not been thinking of Brenda."Perhaps not in that case," he said, "but..." he paused noticeably beforeadding, "The principle remains the same.""Isn't it chiefly a matter of courage?" I asked. "It isn't as if ... themesalliance were in any way disgraceful."I can't absolve myself from the charge of hypocrisy in the making of thatspeech. I was thinking of Jervaise and Anne, and I did not for one momentbelieve that Anne would ever marry him. My purpose was, I think,well-intentioned. I honestly believed that it would be good for him tofall in love with Anne and challenge the world of his people's opinion forher sake. But I blame myself, now, for a quite detestable lack ofsincerity in pushing him on. I should not have done it if I had thought hehad a real chance with her. Life is very difficult; especially for thewell-intentioned.Jervaise shrugged his shoulders. "It's all so infernally complicated bythis affair of Brenda's," he said.Yet it has seemed simple enough to him, I reflected, an hour before. "Kick_him_ and bring _her_ home," had been his ready solution of thedifficulties he thought were before us. Evidently Anne's behaviour duringour talk at the farm had had a considerable effect upon his opinions.That, and the moon. I feel strongly inclined to include the moon--lazilydeclining now towards the ambush of a tumulus-shaped hill, crowned, as isthe manner of that country, with a pert little top-knot of trees."Complicated or simplified?" I suggested."Complicated; damnably complicated," he replied irritably. "Brenda's alittle fool. It isn't as if she were in earnest.""Then you don't honestly believe that she's in love with Banks?" I asked,remembering his "I don't know. How can any one know," of a few minutesearlier."She's so utterly unreliable--in every way," he equivocated. "She alwayshas been. She isn't the least like the rest of us.""Don't you count yourself as another exception?" I asked."Not in that way, Brenda's way," he said. "She's scatter-brained; youcan't get round that. Going off after the dance in that idiotic way. It'smaddening.""Well, there are two questions that must be resolved before we can get anyfurther," I commented. "The first is whether your sister has goneback--she may have been safe in bed for the last hour and a half for allwe know. And the second is whether she is honestly in love with Banks.From what I've heard of him, I should think it's very likely," I addedthoughtfully.Jervaise had his hands in his pockets and was staring up at the moon."He's not a bad chap in some ways," he remarked, "but there's no gettingover the fact that he's our chauffeur."I saw that. No badge could be quite so disgraceful in the eyes of theJervaises as the badge of servitude. Our talk there, by the wood, hadbegun to create around us all the limitations of man's world. I wasforgetting that we were moving in the free spaces of a planetary republic.And then I looked up and saw the leaning moon, whimsically balanced on thevery crown of the topknot that gave a touch of impudence to thepudding-basin hill."What's the name of that hill?" I asked.He looked at it absently for a moment before he said, "The people abouthere call it 'Jervaise Clump.' It's a landmark for miles."There was no getting away from it. The Jervaises had conquered all thisland and labelled it. I watched the sharp edge of the tree-clump slowlyindenting the rounded back of the moon; and it seemed to me thatJervaise-Clump was the solid permanent thing; the moon a mere incident ofthe night."Oh! Lord! Lord! What bosh it all is!" I exclaimed."All what?" Jervaise asked sharply."This business of distinctions; of masters and servants; of families inpossession and families in dependence," I enunciated."It isn't such dangerous bosh as socialism," Jervaise replied."I wasn't thinking of socialism," I said; "I was thinking ofinterplanetary space."Jervaise blew contemptuously. "Don't talk rot," he said, and I realisedthat we were back again on the old footing of our normal relations.Nevertheless I made one more effort."It isn't rot," I said. "If it is, then every impulse towards beauty andfreedom is rot, too." (I could not have said that to Jervaise in a house,but I drew confidence from the last tip of the moon beckoning farewellabove the curve of the hill.) "Your, whatever it is you feel for MissBanks--things like that ... all our little efforts to get away from theseawful, clogging human rules."I had given him his opportunity and he took it. He was absolutelyruthless. "No one but a fool tries to be superhuman," he said. "Come on!"He had turned and was walking back in the direction of the Hall, and Ifollowed him, humiliated and angry.It was so impossible for me at that moment to avoid the suspicion that hehad led me on by his appealing confidences solely in order to score off mewhen I responded. It is not, indeed, surprising that that should be myreaction while the hurt of his sneer still smarted. For he had pricked meon a tender spot. I realised the weakness of what I had said; and it was acharacteristic weakness. I had been absurdly unpractical, as usual, aiminglike a fool, as Jervaise had said, at some "superhuman" ideal of freedomthat perhaps existed solely in my own imagination; and would certainly beregarded by Mr. and Mrs. Jervaise and their circle of county friends asthe vapourings of a weak mind. In short, Jervaise had made me aware of myown ineptitude, and it took me a full ten minutes before I could feelanything but resentment.We had passed back through the kitchen garden with its gouty espaliers,and come into the pleasance before I forgave him. According to his habit,he made no apology for his rudeness, but his explicit renewal ofconfidence in me more nearly approached an overt expression of desire formy friendship than anything I had ever known him to show hitherto."Look here, Melhuish," he said, stopping suddenly in the darkness of thegarden. I could not "look" with much effect, but I replied, a triflesulkily, "Well? What?""If she hasn't come back..." he said."I don't see that we can do anything more till to-morrow," I replied."No use trying to find her, of course," he agreed, irritably, "but we'dbetter talk things over with the governor.""If I can be of any help..." I remarked elliptically."You won't be if you start that transcendental rot," he returned, as if healready regretted his condescension."What sort of rot do you want me to talk?" I asked."Common sense," he said.I resisted the desire to say that I was glad he acknowledged the Jervaiseversion of common sense to be one kind of rot."All serene," I agreed.He did not thank me.And when I looked back on the happenings of the two hours that had elapsedsince Jervaise had fetched me out of the improvised buffet, I was stillgreatly puzzled to account for his marked choice of me as a confidant. Itwas a choice that seemed to signify some weakness in him. I wondered if hehad been afraid to trust himself alone with Anne at the Farm; if he werenow suffering some kind of trepidation at the thought of the cominginterview with his father? I found it so impossible to associate any ideaof weakness with that bullying mask which was the outward expression ofFrank Jervaise.IVIN THE HALLWe found the family awaiting us in the Hall--Mr. and Mrs. Jervaise, Olive,and "Ronnie" Turnbull, whose desire to become one of the family bymarrying its younger daughter was recognised and approved by every oneexcept the young lady herself. Ronnie had evidently been received into thefullest confidence.We had come in by the back door and made our way through the rather aridcleanliness of the houses' administrative departments, flavoured with asmell that combined more notably the odours of cooking and plate-polish.The transition as we emerged through the red baize door under the majesticpanoply of the staircase, was quite startling. It was like passing fromthe desolate sanitation of a well-kept workhouse straight into the lightedauditorium of a theatre. That contrast dramatised, for me, the Jervaises'tremendous ideal of the barrier between owner and servant; but it had,also, another effect which may have been due to the fact that it was, now,three o'clock in the morning.For just at the moment of our transition I had the queerest sense not onlyof having passed at some previous time through a precisely similarexperience, but, also, of taking part in a ridiculous dream. At thatinstant Jervaise Hall, its owners, dependants and friends, had the air ofbeing not realities but symbols pushed up into my thought by some prank ofthe fantastic psyche who dwells in the subconscious. I should not havebeen surprised at any incongruity in the brief passing of that illusion.The sensation flashed up and vanished; but it left me with the excitedfeeling of one who has had a vision of something transcendental, somethingmore vivid and real than the common experiences of life--just such afeeling as I have had about some perfectly absurd dream of the night.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. Jervaise was a man of nearly sixty, I suppose, with a clean-shavenface, a longish nose, and rather loose cheeks which fell, nevertheless,into firm folds and gave him a look of weak determination. I should haveliked to model his face in clay; his lines were of the kind that give theamateur a splendid chance in modelling.Mrs. Jervaise was taller and thinner than her husband, but lost somethingby always carrying her head with a slight droop as if she were for everpassing through a low doorway. Her features were sharper than his--she hada high hawk nose and a thin line of a mouth--but either they werecarelessly arranged or their relative proportions were bad, for I neverfelt the least desire to model her. Jervaise's face came out as apresentable whole, my memory of his wife delivers the hawk nose as the onesalient object of what is otherwise a mere jumble.Old Jervaise certainly looked the more aristocratic of the pair, but Mrs.Jervaise was a woman of good family. She had been a Miss Norman before hermarriage--one of the Shropshire Normans.       *       *       *       *       *The four people in the Hall looked as if they had reached the stage ofbeing dreadfully bored with each other when we arrived. They did not hearus immediately, and as my momentary dream dissolved I had an impression ofthem all as being on the verge of a heartrending yawn. They perked upinstantly, however, when they saw us, turning towards us with a movementthat looked concerted and was in itself a question.Frank Jervaise, striding on ahead of me, answered at once, with a gloomyshake of his head."Isn't she there?" his mother asked. And "Hasn't she been there at all?"she persisted when Frank returned a morose negative."Who did you see?" put in young Turnbull."Miss Banks," Frank said."You are quite sure that Brenda hadn't been there?" Olive Jervaise addedby way of rounding up and completing the inquiry.It was then Frank's turn to begin an unnecessary interrogation by saying"She isn't here, then?" He must have known that she was not, by theirsolicitude; but if he had not put that superfluous question, I believe Ishould; though I might not have added as he did, "You're absolutelycertain?"Young Turnbull then exploded that phase of the situation by remarking, "Isuppose you know that the car's gone?"Frank was manifestly shocked by that news."Good Lord! no, I didn't. How do you know?" he said."I left my own car in the ditch, just outside the Park," Ronnie explained."Don't know in the least how it happened. Suppose I was thinking ofsomething else. Anyway, I've fairly piled her up, I'm afraid. I was comingback from the vicarage, you know. And then, of course, I walked up here,and Mr. Jervaise was good enough to offer me your car to get home in; andwhen we went out to the garage, it had gone.""But was it there when you went to get your own car?" Frank asked."I'm bothered if I know," Ronnie confessed. "I've been trying hard toremember."Mr. Jervaise sighed heavily and took a little stroll across to the otherside of the Hall. He seemed to me to be more perturbed and unhappy thanany of the others.Frank stood in a good central position and scowled enormously, while hismother, his sister, and Ronnie waited anxiously for the important decisionthat he was apparently about to deliver. And they still looked to him tofind some expedient when his impending judgment had taken form in theobvious pronouncement, "Looks as if they'd gone off together, somewhere.""It's very dreadful," Mrs. Jervaise said; and then Olive slightly liftedthe awful flatness of the dialogue by saying,--"We ought to have guessed. It's absurd that we let the thing go on.""One couldn't be sure," her mother protested."If you're going to wait till you're sure, of course..." Frank remarkedbrutally, with a shrug of his eyebrows that effectively completed hissentence."It was so impossible to believe that she would do a thing like that," hismother complained."Point is, what's to be done now," Ronnie said. "By gad, if I catch thatchap, I'll wring his neck."Mr. Jervaise, who was taking a lonely promenade up and down the far sideof the Hall, looked up more hopefully at this threat."Oh! we can _catch_ him," Frank commented. "He has stolen the car, for onething..." his inflection implied that catching Banks might be only thebeginning of the trouble."Well, once we've got him," returned Ronnie hopefully."Don't be an ass," Frank snubbed him. "We can't advertise it all over thecounty that he has gone off with Brenda.""I don't see..." Ronnie began, but Mrs. Jervaise interrupted him."It was so unfortunate that the Atkinsons should have been here," sheremarked."Every one will know, in any case," Olive added.Those avowals of their real and altogether desperate cause for distressraised the emotional tone of the two Jervaise women, and for the firsttime since I had come into the Hall, they looked at me with a hint ofsuspicion. They made me feel that I was an outsider, who might very welltake this opportunity to withdraw.I was on the point of accepting the hint when Frank Jervaise dragged meinto the conclave."What do you think, Melhuish?" he asked, and then they all turned to me asif I might be able in some miraculous way to save the situation. Even oldJervaise paused in his melancholy pacing and waited for my answer."There is so little real evidence, at present," I said, feeling their needfor some loophole and searching my mind to discover one for them."It really does seem almost impossible that Brenda should have--run awaywith that man," Mrs. Jervaise pleaded with the beginning of a gesture thatproduced the effect of wanting to wring her hands."She's under age, too," Frank put in."Does that mean they can't get married?" asked Ronnie."Not legally," Frank said."It's such madness, such utter madness," his mother broke out in a tonebetween lament and denunciation. But she pulled herself up immediately andcame back to my recent contribution as presenting the one possible strawthat still floated in this drowning world. "But, as Mr. Melhuish says,"she went on with a little gasp of annoyance, "we really have very littleevidence, as yet.""It has occurred to me to wonder," I tried, "whether Miss Jervaise mightnot have been moved by a sudden desire to drive the car by moonlight..." Iwas going on to defend my suggestion by pleading that such an impulsewould, so far as I could judge, be quite in character, but no furtherargument was needed. I had created a sensation. My feeble straw hadsuddenly taken the form of a practicable seaworthy raft, big enough toaccommodate all the family--with the one exception of Frank, who, as itwere, grasped the edge of this life-saving apparatus of mine, and testedit suspiciously. His preliminary and perfectly futile opening to theeffect that the moon had already set, was, however, smothered in thegeneral acclamation."Oh! of _course_! So she may!" Mrs. Jervaise exclaimed."Well, we might have thought of that, certainly," Olive echoed. "It wouldbe so _like_ Brenda."While Ronnie hopefully murmured "That _is_ possible, quite possible," as akind of running accompaniment.Then Mr. Jervaise began to draw in to the family group, with what seemedto me quite an absurd air of meaning to find a place on the raft of thebig rug by the fireplace. Indeed, they had all moved a little closertogether. Only Frank maintained his depressing air of doubt."Been an infernally long time," he said. "What's it now? Half-past three?""She may have had an accident," Olive suggested cheerfully."Or gone a lot farther than she originally meant to," Ronnie substituted;the suggestion of an accident to Brenda obviously appearing less desirableto him than it apparently did to Brenda's sister."It seems to me," Mr. Jervaise said, taking the lead for the first time,"that there may very well be half a dozen reasons for her not havingreturned; but I can't think of one that provides the semblance of anexcuse for her going in the first instance. Brenda must be--severelyreprimanded. It's intolerable that she should be allowed to go on likethis.""She has always been spoilt," Olive said in what I thought was a slightlyvindictive aside."She's so impossibly headstrong," deplored Mrs. Jervaise.Her husband shook his head impatiently. "There is a limit to this kind ofthing," he said. "She must be made to understand--_I_ will make herunderstand that we draw the line at midnight adventures of this kind."Mrs. Jervaise and Olive agreed warmly with that decision, and the three ofthem drew a little apart, discussing, I inferred, the means that were tobe adopted for the limiting of the runaway, when she returned. But I waspuzzled to know whether they were finally convinced of the truth of thetheory they had so readily adopted. Were they deceiving, or trying veryhard, indeed, to deceive themselves into the belief that the whole affairwas nothing but a prank of Brenda's? I saw that my casual suggestion had ageneral air of likelihood, but if I had been in their place, I should havedemanded evidence before I drew much consolation from so unsupported aconclusion.I joined young Turnbull."Good idea of yours, Melhuish," Ronnie said.Frank grunted."I've no sort of grounds for it, you know," I explained. "It was only acasual suggestion.""Jolly convincing one, though," Turnbull congratulated me. "So exactly thesort of thing she would do, isn't it, Frank?""Shouldn't have thought she'd have been gone so long," Jervaise replied.He looked at me as he continued, "And how does it fit with that notion ofours about Miss Banks having expected her?""That was only a guess," I argued."Better evidence for it than you had for your guess," he returned, and wedrifted into an indeterminate wrangle, each of us defending his own theoryrather because he had had the glory of originating it than because eitherof us had, I think, the least faith in our explanations.It was Ronnie who, picking up the thread of our deductions from the HomeFarm interview in the course of our discussion, sought to reconcile us andour theories."She might have meant to go up to the Farm," he suggested, "and changedher mind when she got outside. Nothing very unlikely in that.""But why the devil should she have made an appointment at the Home Farm inthe first instance?" Frank replied with some cogency."If she ever did," I put in unwisely, thereby provoking a repetition ofthe evidence afforded by Miss Banks's behaviour, particularly the damningfact that she, alone, had responded to Racquet's demand for our instantannihilation.And while we went on with our pointless arguments and the other littlegroup of three continued to lay plans for the re-education of Brenda, thedepression of a deeper and deeper ennui weighed upon us all. The truth is,I think, that we were all waiting for the possibility of the runaway'sreturn, listening for the sound of the car, and growing momentarily moreuneasy as no sound came. No doubt the Jervaises were all very sleepy andpeevish, and the necessity of restraining themselves before Turnbull andmyself added still another to their many sources of irritation.I put the Jervaises apart in this connection, because Ronnie was certainlyvery wide awake and I had no inclination whatever to sleep. My one longingwas to get back, alone, into the night. I was fretting with the fear thatthe dawn would have broken before I could get away. I had made up my mindto watch the sunrise from "Jervaise Clump."It was Mrs. Jervaise who started the break-up of the party. She wasattacked by a craving to yawn that gradually became irresistible. I sawthe incipient symptoms of the attack and watched her with a sympatheticfascination, as she clenched her jaw, put her hand up to her lips, andmade little impatient movements of her head and body. I knew that it mustcome at last, and it did, catching her unawares in the middle of asentence--undertaken, I fancy, solely as a defence against the insidiouscraving that was obsessing her."Oh, dear!" she said, with a mincing, apologetic gesture of her head; andthen "Dear me!" Having committed the solecism, she found it necessary todraw attention to it. She may have been a Shropshire Norman, but at thatrelaxed hour of the night, she displayed all the signs of the orthodoxgenteel attitude."I don't know when I've been so tired," she apologised.But, indeed, she did owe us an apology for her yawning fit affected us alllike a virulent epidemic. In a moment we were every one of us trying tostifle the same desire, and each in our own way being overcome. I must doFrank the justice to say that he, at least, displayed no sign ofgentility."Oh! Lord, mater, you've started us now," he said, and gave away almostsensuously to his impulses, stretching and gaping in a way that positivelyracked us with the longing to imitate him."Really, my dear, no necessity for you," began Mr. Jervaise, yawned moreor less politely behind a very white, well-kept hand, and concluded, "nonecessity for you or Olive to stay up; none whatever. We cannot, in anycase, _do_ anything until the morning.""Even if she comes in, now," supplemented Olive."As I'm almost sure she will," affirmed Mrs. Jervaise.And she must have put something of genuine confidence into her statement,for automatically we all stopped talking for a few seconds and listenedagain with the ears of faith for the return of the car."But as I said," Olive began again, abruptly ending the unhopeful suspenseof our pause, "there's nothing more we can do by sitting up. And there'scertainly no need for you to overtire yourself, mother.""No, really not," urged Ronnie politely, "nor for you, either, sir," headded, addressing his host. "What I mean is, Frank and I'll do all that.""Rather, let's get a drink," Frank agreed.We wanted passionately to get away from each other and indulge ourselvesprivately in a very orgie of gapes and stretchings. And yet, we stuckthere, idiotically, making excuses and little polite recommendations forthe others to retire, until Frank with a drastic quality of determinationthat he sometimes showed, took command."Go on, mater," he said; "you go to bed." And he went up to her, kissedher in the mechanical way of most grown-up sons, and gently urged her inthe direction of the stairs. She submitted, still with faint protestationsof apology.Olive followed, and with a last feint of hospitality, her father broughtup the tail of the procession."Coming for a drink?" Frank asked me with a jerk of his head towards theextemporised buffet."Well, no, thanks. I think not," I said, seeking the relief afforded bythe women's absence; although, now, that I could indulge my desire withoutrestraint, the longing to gape had surprisingly vanished."Going to bed?" Jervaise suggested."Yes. Bed's the best place, just now," I lied."Right oh! Good-night, old chap," Ronnie said effusively.I pretended to be going upstairs and they did not wait for me todisappear. As soon as they had left the Hall, I sneaked down again,recovered from the cloak-room the light overcoat I had worn on ourexpedition to the Farm--I have no idea to whom that overcoatbelonged--borrowed a cap, and let myself out stealthily by the front door.As I quietly shut the door behind me, a delicious whiff of night-stockdrifted by me, as if it had waited there for all those long hours seekingentrance to the stale, dry air of the Hall.       *       *       *       *       *And it must have been, I think, that scent of night-stock which gave methe sense of a completed episode, or first act, as I stood alone, at last,on the gravel sweep before the Hall. Already the darkness was lifting. Thedawn was coming high up in the sky, a sign of fair weather.I have always had a sure sense of direction, and I turned instinctivelytowards the landmark of my promised destination, although it was invisiblefrom that side of the Hall--screened by the avenue of tall forest trees,chiefly elms, that led up from the principal entrance to the Park. I hadnoticed one side road leading into this avenue as I had driven up from thestation the previous afternoon, and I sought that turning now, with afeeling of certainty that it would take me in the right direction. As,indeed, it did; for it actually skirted the base of "Jervaise Clump,"which touched the extreme edge of the Park on that side.As I cautiously felt my way down the avenue--it was still black dark underthe dark trees--and later up the tunnel of the side road which I hit uponby an instinct that made me feel for it at the precise moment when Ireached the point of its junction with the avenue--I returned with a senseof satisfaction to the memory of the last four hours. I was conscious ofsome kind of plan in the way the comedy of Brenda's disappearance had beenput before us. I realised that, as an art form, the plan was essentiallyundramatic, but the thought of it gave me, nevertheless, a distinctfeeling of pleasure.I saw the experience as a prelude to this lonely adventure of mine--aprelude full of movement and contrast; but I had no premonition of anyequally diverting sequel.The daylight was coming, and I believed, a trifle regretfully, that thatgreat solvent of all mysteries would display these emotions of the nightas the phantasmagoria of our imagination.Before I had reached the end of the tunnel through the wood and had comeout into the open whence I could, now, see the loom of Jervaise Clumpswelling up before me in the deep, gray gloom of early dawn, I had decidedthat my suggestion had been prompted by an intuition of truth. Brenda hadfallen under the spell of the moon, and gone for a long drive in themotor. She had taken Banks with her, obviously; but that action need notbe presumed to have any romantic significance. And the Jervaises hadaccepted that solution. They had been more convinced of its truth than Ihad imagined. They would never have gone to bed, tired as they were, ifthey had not been satisfied that Brenda had committed no otherindiscretion than that of indulging herself in the freak of a moonlightdrive. It had, certainly, been unduly prolonged; but, as old Jervaise hadsaid, there might be half a dozen reasons to account for that.As I turned off the road and breasted the lower slopes of the hill, I wasconstructing the details of the Jervaises' explanatory visit to theAtkinsons. I had reached the point of making Mrs. Jervaise repeat thestatement she had made in the Hall that "dear Brenda was so impossiblyheadstrong," when I heard the sweet, true notes of some one ahead of me,whistling, almost miraculously, in tune.It isn't one man in a million who can whistle absolutely true.VDAYBREAKHe was whistling Schubert's setting of "Who is Sylvia?" and as I climbedslowly and as silently as I could towards him, I fitted the music to thewords of the second verse:--  Is she kind as she is fair?  For beauty lives with kindness.Only a man in love, I thought, could be whistling that air with suchattention and accuracy. He hit that unusual interval--is it an augmentedseventh?--with a delicacy that was quite thrilling.He had the world to himself, as yet. The birds of the morning had notbegun their orisons, while the birds of the night, the owls and thecorncrakes had, happily, retired before the promise of that weakeningdarkness which seemed nevertheless to have reached a moment ofsuspense--indeed, I fancied that it was darker, now, than when I had comeout of the Hall a quarter of an hour before.The whistler had stopped before I reached the crest of the hill, and aftertrying vainly to locate his whereabouts in the gloom, I leaned up againstone of the outermost trunks of the perky little clump of trees, and facingEast awaited developments. A thin, cold wind had sprung up, and wasquietly stirring the leaves above me to an uneasy sibilance. I heard, now,too, an occasional sleepy twitter as if a few members of the orchestra hadcome into their places and were indolently testing the tune of theirpipes. It came into my mind that the cold stir of air was the spirit ofthe dying night, fleeing westward before the sun. Also, I found myselfwondering what would be the effect on us all if one morning we waited invain for the sunrise? I tried to picture my own emotions as the truth wasslowly borne in upon me that some unprecedented calamity had silently andwithout any premonition befallen the whole world of men. Would one crouchin a terror of apprehension? I could not see it that way. I believed thatI should be trembling with a furious excitement, stirred to the verydepths by so inspiring and adventurous a miracle. I had forsaken myspeculation and was indulging in the philosophical reflection that a realand quite unaccountable miracle, the more universal the better, would bethe most splendid justification of life I could possibly conceive, whenthe whistler began again, only a few yards away from me.I could just see him now, sitting propped against the trunk of anothertree, but I waited until he had finished what I chose to believe was thethird verse of his lyric before I hailed him. It came to me that I mighttest his quality by continuing the play in proper form, so when he paused,I went on with the speech of the "host" which immediately follows the songin "The Two Gentlemen of Verona.""How now?" I said. "Are you sadder than you were before?"He did not move, not even to turn his head towards me, and I inferred thathe was aware of my presence before I spoke."You, one of the search party?" he asked.I went over and sat down by him. I felt that the situation wassufficiently fantastic to permit of free speech. I did not know who he wasand I did not care. I only knew that I wanted to deliver myself of thedreams my lack of sleep had robbed from me."The only one," I said, "unless you also belong to the very small andselect party of searchers."I fancy that he turned his head a little towards me, but I kept my gazefixed on the indigo masses of the obscure prospect before us."Who are you looking for?" he asked."Not so much who as what," I said. "And even then it isn't so easy todefine. I've heard men call it beauty and mystery, and things like that;but just now it seemed to me that what I wanted most was a universalmiracle--some really inexplicable happening that would upset every law thephysicists have ever stated. I was thinking, for instance, how thrillingit would be if the sun did not rise this morning. One would know, then,that all our scientific guesses at laws were just so many babyspeculations founded on nothing more substantial than a few thousand yearsof experience which had, by some chance given always more or less the sameresults. Like a long run on the red, you know.""I know," he said. "Well? Go on."I was greatly stimulated by his encouragement. Here, at last, was thelistener I had been waiting for all through the night."One gets so infernally sick of everything happening according to fixedrules," I continued. "And the more you learn the nearer you are to thedeadly ability of being able to foretell the future. If we ever do reachthat point in our intellectual evolution, I only hope that I shan't bethere to see it. Imagine the awful ennui of a world where the expectedalways happened, and next year's happenings were always expected! And yetwe go on seeking after knowledge, when we ought surely to avoid it, as theuniversal kill joy.""Hm!" commented my new friend on what I felt to be a note of doubtfulagreement."You don't agree with that?" I asked."Well, I see what you're after, in a way," he acknowledged; "but itdoesn't seem to me that it amounts to very much--practically."I was a trifle disappointed. I had not expected any insistence on thepractical from a man who could whistle Schubert and Shakespeare to thedawn."Oh, practically! Perhaps not," I replied with a hint of contempt foranything so common.He gave a little self-conscious laugh. "You can't get away from thepractical in this life," he said. "Even in--" He seemed to bite off thebeginning of confidence with an effort. "You may dream half the night," hebegan again, with a thin assumption of making an impersonal statement,"but before the night's over you'll come up against the practical, or thepracticable, or the proper right thing, or something, that makes you seewhat a fool you are. The way this world's run, you can't avoid it,anyhow."I knew that what he said was true, but I found it damping. It fitted alltoo well with the coming realism of day. The contours of the landscapewere slowly resigning themselves to the formal attitudes imposed upon themby expectation. The blood of colour was beginning to run weakly throughthe monochrome. The nearer slopes of the hill and the leaves of the treeswere already professing a resolute green. Moment by moment the familiarwas taking prudent shape, preparing itself for the autocrat whoseoutriders were multitudinously busy about their warnings of his approach.Presently the scene would take on the natural beauty of our desire, butthe actual process of transformation rather depressed me that morning. Ihad been so deeply in love with the night.I took up my companion's last sentence--spoken, I fancied, with asuggestion of brooding antagonism."You think the world might be 'run,' at least, more interestingly?" I putin."More sensibly," he said in a voice that hinted a reserve of violence."There's no _sense_ in it, the way we look at things. Only we don't lookat 'em, most of us, not with any intelligence. We just take everything forgranted because we happen to be used to it, that's all.""But would any form of socialism..." I tried tentatively."I don't know that I'm a socialist," he returned. "I don't belong to anyunion, or anything of that kind." He stopped and looked at me with adefiant stare that was quite visible now. "You know who I am, I suppose?"he challenged me."No idea," I said."Banks, the chauffeur," he said, as if he were giving himself up as awell-known criminal.I was not entirely unprepared for that reply, but I had no tactful answerto make. I rejected the spontaneous impulse that arose, as I thought quitefantastically, to say "I believe I have met your sister;" and fell back onan orthodox "Well?" I tried to convey the effect that I still waited to beshocked."I suppose you're staying up at the Hall?" he said."For the week-end only," I admitted."Been a pretty fuss there, I take it?" he said."Some," I acknowledged.He set his resolute-looking mouth and submitted me to cross-examination."Been looking for me?" he began."In a way. Frank Jervaise and I went up to your father's house.""What time?""Between two and three.""Not since?""No; we left about half-past two.""Is she back?""Who?" I asked. I was thinking of his sister, and could find noapplication for this question."Miss Jervaise.""Oh--er--Miss Brenda? No. She hadn't come in when I left the house.""What time was that?""About four. I came straight here.""Not back, eh?" he commented with a soft, low whistle, that mingled, Ithought, something of gladness with its surprise."You don't know where she is, then?" I ventured.He turned and looked at me suspiciously. "I don't see why I should helpyour friends," he said.I realised that my position was a difficult one. My sympathies wereentirely with Banks. I felt that if there was to be any question of makingallowances, I wanted to be on the side of Brenda and the Home Farm. But,at the same time, I could not deny that I owed something--loyalty, wasit?--to the Jervaises. I pondered that for a few seconds before I spokeagain, and by then I had found what I believed to be a tolerable attitude,though I was to learn later that it compromised me no less than if I hadfrankly thrown in my lot with the Banks faction."You are quite right," I said. "And I would sooner you gave me noconfidences, now I come to think of it. But I should like you to know, allthe same, that I'm not taking sides in this affair. I have no intention,for instance, of telling them at the Hall that I've seen you."The daylight was flooding up from the North-West, now, in a great streamthat had flushed the whole landscape with colour; and I could see the fullsignificance of honest inquiry in my companion's face as he probed me withhis stare. But I could meet his gaze without confusion. My purpose wassingle enough, and if I had had a moment's doubt of him when he failed torespond to my mood of fantasy; I was now fully prepared to accept himwithout qualification.He was not like his sister in appearance. He favoured the paternal stock,I inferred. He was blue-eyed and fairer than Anne, and the tan of his facewas red where hers was dusky. Nevertheless, I saw a likeness between themdeeper than some family trick of expression which, now and again, made mefeel their kinship. For Banks, too, gave me the impression of having asoul that came something nearer the surface of life than is common inaverage humanity--a look of vitality, zest, ardour--I fumbled for a moresignificant superlative as I returned his stare. And yet behind thatardour there was, in Arthur Banks, at least, a hint of determination andshrewdness that I felt must be inherited from the sound yeoman stock ofhis father.Our pause of mutual investigation ended in a smile. He held out his handwith a pleasant frankness that somehow proclaimed the added colonialquality of him."That's all right," he said, "but anyway I couldn't give you anyconfidences, yet. I don't know myself, you see.""Are you going back to the Hall?" I asked."I don't know that, either," he said, and added, "I shan't go back as thechauffeur, anyway."And, indeed, there was little of the chauffeur in his appearance, justthen. He was wearing a light tweed suit and brown brogues, and his clothessat upon him with just that touch of familiarity, of negligence, that yourprofessional servant's mufti can never accomplish.There was a new air of restlessness about him since he had put me undercross-examination. He looked round him in the broadening day as if he werein search of something, or some one, hopefully yet half-despairinglyexpected."Look here--if you'd sooner I went..." I began.He had risen to his feet after his last statement and was looking backtowards the Hall, but he faced me again when I spoke."Oh, no!" he said with a hint of weariness."It isn't likely that..." He broke off and threw himself moodily down onthe grass again before he continued, "It's not that I couldn't trust you.But you can see for yourself that it's better I shouldn't. When you getback to the Hall, you might be asked questions and for your own sake it'dlook better if you didn't know the answers.""Oh, quite," I agreed, and added, "I'll stay and see the sun rise.""You won't see the sun for some time," he remarked. "There'll be a lot ofcloud and mist for it to break through. It's going to be a scorcherto-day.""Good," I replied; and for a few minutes we discussed weather signs likeany other conventional Englishmen. A natural comparison led us presentlyto the subject of Canada. But through it all he bore himself as a man witha preoccupation he could not forget; and I was looking for a good openingto make an excuse of fatigue and go back to the Hall, when something ofthe thought that was intriguing him broke through the surface of his talk."I'm going back there as soon as I can," he said with a sudden impatience."There's room to turn round in Canada without hitting up against a noticeboard and trespassing on the preserves of some landed proprietor. I'dnever have come home if it hadn't been for the old people. They thoughtchauffering for Mr. Jervaise would be a chance for me! Anyhow my fatherdid. He's got the feeling of being dependent. It's in his bones like it iswith, all of 'em--on the estate. It's a tradition. Lord, the old man wouldbe horrified, if he knew! The Jervaises are a sort of superior creation tohim. We've been their tenants for God knows how many hundred years. Andserfs before that, I suppose. I get the feeling myself, sometimes. It'sinfectious. When you see every one kow-towing to old Jervaise as if hewere the angel Gabriel, you begin to feel as if there must be something init."The full day had come, and the cold draught of air that had preceded thesunrise came now from behind me as if the spirits of the air haddiscovered that their panic-stricken flight had been a mistake and weretentatively returning to inquire into the new conditions. The birds werefully awake now, and there was a tremendous gossiping and chattering goingon, that made me think of massed school-children in a railway station,twittering with the excitement of their coming excursion. In theNorth-East the gray wall of mist was losing the hardness of its edge, andbehind the cloud the sky was bleaching to an ever paler blue."And yet," I said, as my companion paused, "the Jervaises aren't anythingparticular as a family. They haven't done anything, even in the usual way,to earn ennoblement or fame.""They've squatted," Banks said, "that's what they've done. Set themselvesdown here in the reign of Henry II., and sat tight ever since--grabbingcommons and so on, now and again, in the usual way, of course. The villageis called after them, Thorp-Jervaise, and the woods and the hills, andhalf the labourers in the neighbourhood have got names like Jarvey andJarvis. What I mean is that the Jervaises mayn't be of any account inLondon, or even in the county, alongside of families like LordGarthorne's; but just round here they're the owners and always have beensince there have been any private owners. Their word's law. If you don'tlike it, you can get out, and that's all there is about it." He gazedthoughtfully in front of him and thrust out his lower lip. "I've got toget out," he added, "unless..."I hesitated to prompt him, fearing the possibly inquisitive sound of themost indirect question, and after what I felt was a very pregnant silence,he continued rather in the manner of one allusively submitting a case."But you get to a point where you feel as if no game's worth winning ifyou can't play it fair and open.""So long as the other side play fair with you," I commented."They can afford to," he returned. "They get every bit of pull there is tohave. I told you we've been tenants of the Home Farm ever since there'sbeen a Home Farm, but old Jervaise could turn my father out any time, atsix months' notice. Would, too. Probably have to, for the sake of publicopinion. Well, would you call that playing fair?""I shouldn't," I said with emphasis."Most people would," he replied gloomily. I was wondering what his own"pull" might be, the pull he would not use because the use of itconflicted with his ideal of playing the game. I was inclined, with afoolish romanticism to toy with the notion of some old blood relationshipbetween the families of Jervaise and Banks--some carefully hidden scandalthat might even throw a doubt on the present owner's right ofproprietorship. I was still rebuilding that foolish, familiar story of thelost heir, when my new friend put an end to further speculation bysaying,--"But what's the good of thinking about that--yet? Why, I don't evenknow..."I could not resist a direct question this time. "Don't even know what?" Iasked."I was forgetting," he said. He got to his feet again, looked round for amoment, and then gave a yawn which seemed to spring from a nervous ratherthan a muscular origin."No good my compromising you, just now," he said with a friendly smile."You've probably guessed more, already, than'll be altogether convenientfor you when you see the family at breakfast. Perhaps, we'll meet againsome day.""I'm staying here till Monday," I said."But I don't know if I am," he replied with a whimsical twist of his firmmouth. "Well, so long," he went on quickly. "Glad to have met you,anyway." He nodded with a repetition of that frank, engaging smile of his,and turned away.He did not take the road by which I had found Jervaise Clump, butdescended the hill on the opposite side; and, after he had gone for fiveminutes or so, I got up and took a view of the prospect in that direction.I had no thought of spying upon him. I just wished to see if the Home Farmlay over there, as I guessed it must from my memory of the general lie ofthe land during our moonlit return to the Hall.I was right. The farm was clearly visible from the northern slope of thehill--an L-shaped, low, white house with a high, red-tiled roof. It stoodon another little tumulus about a mile away, a small replica of JervaiseClump; and the whole house was visible above the valley wood that laybetween us.At first I could not decide why the effect of the place gave me animpression of being unusual, and finally decided that this apparent air ofindividuality was due to the choice of site. In that country all the farmswere built in the lower lands, crouching under the lee of woods and hills,humbly effacing themselves before the sovereignty of the Hall. The HomeFarm alone, as far as I could see, presented a composed and dignified faceto its overlord."There is a quality about these Bankses," I thought, and then correctedthe statement by adding, "about the children, at least." From what ArthurBanks had said, I gathered that his father conformed to the faith of theestate, both in act and spirit.I stared at the Farm for a few minutes, wondering what that French wifemight be like. I found it difficult to picture the ci-devant governess inthose surroundings, and more particularly as the mother of these twofascinating children. They, like their home, produced an effect of beingdifferent from the common average....I became aware that the green of woods and grass had leapt to attention,and that sprawling shadows had suddenly come into being and were giving anew solidity to the landscape. Also, I felt a touch of unexpected warmthon my right cheek.I returned to the place where Banks and I had talked, and sat down againfacing the glorious light of the delivered sun. And almost at once I wasovercome by an intense desire to sleep. My purpose of walking back to theHall, undressing and going to bed had become impossible. I stretchedmyself full length on the turf, and surrendered myself, exquisitely, tothe care of the sunlight.VIMORNINGI awoke suddenly to the realisation of sound. The world about me was alivewith a murmurous humming. It was as if in passing through the silentaisles of sleep, some door had been unexpectedly thrown open and let inthe tumultuous roar of life from without--or as if after a brief absence Ihad returned and with one movement had re-established all thecommunications of my body.All sense of tiredness had left me. I opened my eyes and saw that the sunhad leapt far up into the sky. The whole population of Jervaise Clump wasplunged into the full bustle of its daily business. Industrious bees weremethodically visiting the buttercups; their bustling, commercial eagernessin marked contrast to the bluebottles and flies that seemed to choosetheir point of alighting with a sham intentness which did not disguisetheir lack of any definite purpose. Now and again a feral, domineeringwasp would join the crowd, coming up with the air of a fussy, inquisitiveoverseer.I looked at my watch and found that the time was a quarter past eight. Ihad been asleep for nearly three hours. I had no idea what time theJervaises had breakfast, but I knew that it was high time I got back tothe Hall and changed my clothes.I unbuttoned my coat and looked down at my shirt front and thought howincongruous and silly that absurd garb of evening dress appeared in thosesurroundings.And as I trotted back to the Hall, I found a symbol in my dress for thedrama of the night. It was, I thought, all artificial and unreal, now thatI looked back upon it in the blaze of a brilliant August morning.Beginning with the foolishness of a dance at that time of year--even a"tennis-dance" as they called it--the subsequent theatrical quality of thenight's adventure seemed to me, just then, altogether garish andfantastic. I began to wonder how far I had dramatised and distorted theactual events by the exercise of a romantic imagination? In the sweetfreshness of the familiar day, I found myself exceedingly inclined to berational. Also, I was aware of being quite unusually hungry.The front door of the Hall was standing wide open, and save for a glimpseof the discreet John very busy in his shirt-sleeves, I saw no one about. Iwas glad to reach my room unobserved. I knew that my feeling wasunreasonable, but entering that sedate house, under the blaze of themorning sun, I was ashamed of my tawdry dress. A sense of dissipation andrevelry seemed to hang about me--and of an uncivilised dirtiness.A cold bath and a change of clothes, however, fully restored myself-respect; and when I was summoned by the welcome sound of a boominggong, the balance of sensation was kicking the other beam. My sleep in theopen had left me finally with a feeling of superiority. I was inclined todespise the feeble, stuffy creatures who had been shut up in a house allnight.I knew the topography of the house fairly well after my night's experienceof it, and inferred the breakfast-room without any difficulty. But when Ireached the door I stood and listened in considerable astonishment.Luckily, I was not tempted to make the jaunty entrance my mood prompted. Ihad not seen a soul as I had made my way from my room in the north wingdown into the Hall. The place seemed to be absolutely deserted. And, now,in the breakfast-room an almost breathless silence was broken only by theslow grumbling of one monotonous voice, undulating about the limited rangeof a minor third, and proceeding with the steady fluency of a lunatic'smuttering. I suppose I ought to have guessed the reasonable origin ofthose sounds, but I didn't, not even when the muttering fell to a pauseand was succeeded by a subdued chorus, that conveyed the effect of a scoreof people giving a concerted but strongly-repressed groan. After that thefirst voice began again, but this time it was not allowed to mumbleunsupported. A murmured chant followed and caricatured it, repeating asfar as I could make out the same sequence of sounds. They began "Ah! Fah!Chah! Hen...." That continued for something like a minute before it cameto a ragged close with another groan. Then for a few seconds the originalvoice continued its grumbling, and was followed by an immense quiet.I stared through the open door of the Hall at the gay world of colouroutside and wondered if I was under the thrall of some queer illusion. Butas I moved towards the garden with a vague idea of regaining my sanity inthe open air, the silence in the breakfast-room was broken by the sigh ofa general movement, the door was opened from within, and there poured outa long procession of servants: a grave woman in black, a bevy ofprint-gowned maids, and finally John--all of them looking staid and atrifle melancholy, they made their way with a kind of hushed timiditytowards the red-baized entrance that led to the freedoms of their propercondition.Within the breakfast-room a low chatter of voices was slowly rising to thelevel of ordinary conversation.My entrance was anything but jaunty. This was the first intimation I hadreceived of the Jervaises' piety; and my recognition of the ceremonial offamily worship to which I had so unintuitively listened, had evoked longundisturbed memories of my boyhood. As I entered the breakfast-room, Icould not for the life of me avoid a feeling of self-reproach. I had beennaughty again. My host, taking the place of my father, would be vexedbecause I had missed prayers.My reception did little to disperse my sense of shame. The air of Sundaymorning enveloped the whole party. Even Hughes and Frank Jervaise weredressed as for a special occasion in black tail-coats and gray trousersthat boasted the rigidity of a week's pressing. Not only had I been guiltyof cutting family prayers; I was convicted, also of disrespect on anothercount. My blue serge and bright tie were almost profane in thosesurroundings. The thought of how I had spent the night convicted me as athorough-going Pagan."I hope you managed to get a little sleep, Mr. Melhuish," Mrs. Jervaisesaid tepidly. "We are having breakfast half an hour later than usual, butyou were so very late last night."I began to mumble something, but she went on, right over me, speaking in avoice that she obviously meant to carry "And Brenda isn't down even now,"she said. "In fact she's having breakfast in her own room, and I am not atall sure that we shan't keep her there all day. She has the beginning of anasty cold brought on by her foolishness--and, besides, she has been very,very naughty and will have to be punished." She gave a touch of grimplayfulness to her last sentence, but I should not in any case have takenher statement seriously. If I knew anything of our Brenda, it was that shewas not the sort of young lady who would submit to being kept in her ownroom as a punishment."I hope the cold won't be serious," was all I could find to say.I looked at Mr. Jervaise, who was standing despondently by the fireplace,but he did not return my glance. He presented, I thought, the picture ofdespair, and I suffered a sharp twinge of reaction from my championship ofthe Banks interest at sunrise. Those two protagonists of the drama, Banksand Brenda, were so young, eager and active. Life held so much promise forthem. This ageing man by the fireplace--he must have been nearlysixty--had probably ceased to live for his own interests. His ambitionswere now centred in his children. I began to feel an emotional glow ofsympathy for him in his distress. Probably this youngest, most brilliant,child of his was also the most tenderly loved. It might well be that hisanxiety was for her rather than for himself; that the threat to his prideof family was almost forgotten in his sincere wish for his daughter'shappiness. It would appear so certain to him that she could never findhappiness in a marriage with Arthur Banks.And with that thought a suspicion of my late companion of the hill-topleapt into my mind. He had hinted at some influence or "pull" overBrenda's father that might perhaps be used in a last emergency, althoughthe use of it implied the taking of a slightly dishonourable advantage.Was it not probable, I now wondered, that this influence was to beobtained by working on Jervaise's too tender devotion to his daughter? Wasshe, perhaps, to be urged as a last resource to bear on that gentleweakness by threat or cajolery?I began to wish that I had not been quite so friendly with Mr. Banks. Ihad been led away by the scent and glamour of the night. Here, in thisSunday morning breakfast-room, I was able for the first time to appreciatethe tragedy in its proper relation to the facts of life. I saw thatBrenda's rash impulsiveness might impose a quite horrible punishment onher too-devoted father.I turned away towards one of the window-seats. Miss Tattersall and NoraBailey were sitting together there, pretending a conversation while theypatiently awaited the coming of breakfast. Mrs. Jervaise was talking nowto her elder daughter; Frank was arguing some point with Gordon Hughes,and as I felt unequal to offering comfort to the lonely head of the house,so evidently wrapped in his sorrow, I preferred to range myself with thefourth group. I thought it probable that the sympathies of those two youngwomen might at the moment most nearly correspond to my own.I was surprised to be greeted by Miss Tattersall with what had all theappearance of a discreetly covert wink, and I raised my eyebrows with thatair of half-jocular inquiry which I fancied she would expect from me. Sheevaded the implied question, however, by asking me what time I "really gotto bed, after all.""The sun was up before I went to sleep," I replied, to avoid the possibleembarrassment of her comments should I admit to having slept in the openair; and then John and a female acolyte came in with the long-desiredmaterial of breakfast."Good!" I commented softly. "I'm simply ravenous.""Are you?" Miss Tattersall said. "You deserve to go without breakfast forhaving missed prayers," and added in precisely the same undertone ofconventional commonplace, "I don't believe she came back at all lastnight."But, having thus piqued my curiosity, she gave me no opportunity togratify it. She checked the question that my change of expression musthave foreshadowed by a frown which warned me that she could not give anyreason for her suspicion in that company."Later on," she whispered, and got up from her seat in the window, leavingme to puzzle over the still uncertain mystery of Brenda's disappearance.Miss Bailey had not, apparently, overheard the confidence. She did not, inany case, relinquish for an instant that air of simple, attentiveinnocence which so admirably suited the fresh prettiness of her style.There was little conversation over the breakfast table. We were all gladto find an excuse for silence either in the pretence or reality of hunger.Old Jervaise's excuse was, quite pathetically, only a pretence; but hetried very hard to appear engrossed in the making of a hearty meal. Hismanner had begun to fascinate me, and I had constantly to check myselffrom staring at him. I found it so difficult to account satisfactorily forthe effect of dread that he in some way conveyed. It was, I thought, muchthe effect that might have been produced by a criminal in danger ofarrest.But all of us, in our different ways, were more than a littleuncomfortable. The whole air of the breakfast-table was one ofdissimulation. Gordon Hughes made occasional efforts in conversation thatwere too glaringly irrelevant to the real subject of our thoughts. Andwith each beginning of his, the others, particularly Olive, Mrs. Jervaise,and little Nora Bailey, plunged gallantly into the new topic withspasmodic fervour that expended itself in a couple of minutes, andhorribly emphasised the blank of silence that inevitably followed. Wetalked as people talk who are passing the time while they wait for somegreat event. But what event we could be awaiting, it was hard toimagine--unless it were the sudden return of Brenda, with or withoutBanks.And, even when we had all finished, and were free to separate, we stilllingered for unnecessary minutes in the breakfast-room, as if we werecompelled to maintain our pretence until the last possible moment.Old Jervaise was the first to go. He had made less effort to disguise hispreoccupation than any of us, and now his exit had something ofabruptness, as if he could no longer bear to maintain any furthersemblance of disguise. One could only infer from the manner of his goingthat he passionately desired either solitude or the sole companionship ofthose with whom he could speak plainly of his distress.We took our cue from him with an evident alacrity. Every one looked as ifhe or she were saying something that began with a half-apologetic"Well..."; and Mrs. Jervaise interpreted our spirit when she remarked tothe company in general, "Well, it's very late, I'm afraid, and I dare saywe've all got a lot to do before we start for church. We shall have toleave soon after half-past ten," she explained.Frank had already left the room when she said that, she herself went outwith her elder daughter, and the four of us who remained, all visitors,were left to pair with each other as we chose. It was Miss Tattersall whodetermined the arrangement. She cleverly avoided the submissive glance oflittle Nora Bailey, and asked me unequivocally if I would care to take a"stroll" with her in the garden.I agreed with a touch of eagerness and followed her, wondering if herintriguing sentence before breakfast had been nothing more than a cleverpiece of chicane, planned to entice me into a tete-a-tete.(I admit that this may sound like a detestable symptom of vanity on mypart, but, indeed, I do not mean to imply that she cared a snap of thefingers for me personally. She was one of those women who must have someman in tow, and it happened that I was the only one available for thatweek-end. Frank was supposed to be in love with Miss Bailey; Gordon Hugheswas engaged to some girl in the north, and used that defence without shamewhen it suited him.)I did not, however, permit Miss Tattersall to see my eagerness when wewere alone on the terrace together. If she was capable of chicane, so wasI; and I knew that if she had anything to tell me, she would not be ableto keep it to herself for long. If, on the other hand, I began to askquestions, she would certainly take a pleasure in tantalising me."What's this about going to church?" was my opening."Didn't you know?" she replied. "We all go in solemn procession. Wewalk--for piety's sake--it's over a mile across the fields--and we arerounded up in lots of time, because it's a dreadful thing to get thereafter the bell has stopped.""Interrupting the service," I put in with the usual inanity that isessential to the maintenance of this kind of conversation."It's worse than that," Miss Tattersall explained gaily; "because Mr.Sturton waits for the Jervaises, to begin. When we're late we hold up thedevotions of the whole parish.""Good Lord!" I commented; sincerely, this time; and with a thought of mysocialist friend Banks. I could still sympathise with him on that score,even though I was now strongly inclined to side with the Jervaises in theBrenda affair."Yes, isn't it?" Miss Tattersall agreed. "Of course, they _are_ the onlyimportant people in the place," she added thoughtfully."So important that it's slightly presumptuous to worship God without thesanction of their presence in church," I remarked. And then, feeling thatthis comment was a trifle too strong for my company, I tried to cover itby changing the subject."I say, do you think we _ought_ to stay on here over the week-end?" Iasked. "Wouldn't it be more tactful of us to invent excuses and leave themto themselves?""Certainly it would. Have you only just thought of it?" Miss Tattersallsaid pertly. "Nora and I agreed about that before we came down to prayers.But there's a difficulty that seems, for the moment, insuperable.""Which is?" I prompted her."No conveyance," she explained. "There aren't any Sunday trains on theloop line, Hurley Junction is fifteen miles away, and the Jervaises' caris Heaven knows where and the only other that is borrowable, Mr.Turnbull's, is derelict just outside the Park gates."I thought she was rather inclined to make a song of it all, genuinelythankful to have so sound an excuse for staying to witness the dramaticdevelopments that might possibly be in store for us. I do not deny that Iappreciated her feeling in that matter."And the horses?" I suggested."Too far for them, in the omnibus," she said. "And nothing else would bebig enough for four people and their luggage. But, as a matter of fact,Nora and I talked it all over with Mrs. Jervaise before prayers, and shesaid we weren't to think of going--especially as it was all right, now,about Brenda.""I'm glad it is all right, if only for old Jervaise's sake," I said,craftily.She looked up at me, trying to guess how far I was honest in that remark."But you don't really believe..." she said."I don't see why not," I returned."That Brenda _has_ come back?""Mrs. Jervaise said...""Had to, of course," Miss Tattersall replied curtly.I pursed my mouth and shook my head. "It would be too risky to deceive usas crudely as that," I said. "Make it so much more significant if wediscovered that they had been lying about her."Miss Tattersall looked obstinate, putting on that wooden enduringexpression peculiar to fair people with pale eyes."I don't believe she has come back," she said.I continued to argue. I guessed that she had some piece of evidence inreserve; also, that for some reason she was afraid to produce it. And atlast, as I had hoped, my foolish, specious arguments and apparentcredulity irritated her to a pitch of exasperation."Oh! you can talk till all's blue," she broke in with a flash of temper,"but she hasn't come back.""But..." I began."I know she hasn't," Miss Tattersall said, and the pink of her cheeksspread to her forehead and neck like an overflowing stain."Of course if you know..." I conceded."I do," she affirmed, still blushing.I realised that the moment had come for conciliation. "This istremendously interesting," I said.She looked up at me with a question in her face, but I did not understanduntil she spoke, that what had been keeping back her confession was notdoubt of my trustworthiness but her fear of losing my good opinion."I expect you'll think it was horrid of me," she said.I made inarticulate sounds intended to convey an effect of reassurance."You _will_," she insisted, and gave her protest a value that I felt to beslightly compromising. I could only infer that the loss of my good opinionwould be fatal to her future happiness."Indeed, I shan't," I protested, although I had to say it in a tone thatpractically confirmed this talk of ours as a perfectly genuine flirtation."Men have such queer ideas of honour in these things," she went on with arecovering confidence."Do you mean that you--peeped," I said. "Into Brenda's room?"She made a _moue_ that I ought to have found fascinating, noddingemphatically."The door wasn't locked, then?" I put in.She shook her head and blushed again; and I guessed in a flash that shehad used the keyhole."But could you be sure?" I persisted. "Absolutely sure that she wasn'tthere?""I--I only opened the door for a second," she said, "But I saw the bed. Ithadn't been slept in.""And this happened?" I suggested."Just before I came down to prayers," she replied."Well, where is she?" I asked.Miss Tattersall laughed. Now that we had left the dangerous topic of hermeans of obtaining evidence, she was sure of herself again."She might be anywhere by this time," she said. "She and her loverobviously went off in the motor together at twelve o'clock. They areprobably in London, by now."I did not give her confidence for confidence. I had practically promisedBanks not to say that I had seen him on Jervaise Clump at five o'clockthat morning, and I was not the least tempted to reveal that importantfact to Miss Tattersall. I diverted the angle of our talk a trifle, at thesame time allowing my companion to assume that I agreed with herconclusion."Do you know," I said, "that the person I'm most sorry for in this affairis Mr. Jervaise. He seems absolutely broken by it."Miss Tattersall nodded sympathetically. "Yes, isn't it dreadful?" shesaid. "At breakfast this morning I was thinking how perfectly detestableit was of Brenda to do a thing like that.""Or of Banks?" I added."Oh! it wasn't his fault," Miss Tattersall said spitefully. "He was justinfatuated, poor fool. She could do anything she liked with him."I reflected that Olive Jervaise and Nora Bailey would probably haveexpressed a precisely similar opinion."I suppose he's a weak sort of chap?" I said."No. It isn't that," Miss Tattersall replied. "He doesn't look weak--notat all. No! he is just infatuated--for the time being."We had been pacing up and down the lawn, parallel to the front of thehouse and perhaps fifty yards away from it--a safe distance formaintaining the privacy of our conversation. And as we came to the turn ofour walk nearest to the drive, I looked back towards the avenue thatintervened between us and the swelling contours of Jervaise Clump. I wasthinking about my expedition towards the sunrise; and I was takencompletely off my guard when I saw a tweed-clad figure emerge from underthe elms and make its way with a steady determination up the drive."Well, one of them isn't in London, anyway," I said."Why? Who?" she returned, staring, and I realised that she was tooshort-sighted to make out the identity of the advancing figure from thatdistance."Who is it?" she repeated with a hint of testiness.I had seen by then that I had inadvertently given myself away, and I hadnot the wit to escape from the dilemma."I don't know," I said, hopelessly embarrassed. "It--it just struck methat this might be Banks."He had come nearer to us now, near enough for Miss Tattersall to recognisehim; and her amazement was certainly greater than mine."But you're right," she said with a little catch in her breath. "It isBanks, out of uniform."For a moment I hoped that her surprise might cover my slip, but she wasmuch too acute to pass such a palpable blunder as that."It is," she repeated; "but how did you know? I thought you had never seenhim.""Just an intuition," I prevaricated and tried, I knew at the time howuselessly, to boast a pride in my powers of insight.The effect upon my companion was neither that I hoped to produce, nor thatI more confidently expected. Instead of chaffing me, pressing me for anexplanation of the double game I had presumably been playing, she lookedat me with doubt and an obvious loss of confidence. Just so, I thought,she might have looked at me if I had tried to take some unfair advantageof her."Well, I suppose it's time to get ready for church," she remarked coldly."Are you coming?"I forget what I replied. She was already slipping into the background ofmy interest. I was so extraordinarily intrigued by the sight of ArthurBanks, the chauffeur, boldly ringing at the front door of Jervaise Hall.VIINOTES AND QUERIESMiss Tattersall had started for the house and her preparations forchurch-going, but she paused on the hither side of the drive and pretendedan interest in the flower beds, until Banks had been admitted to the Hall.I could not, at that distance, mark the expression on John's face when heanswered the bell, but I noticed that there was a perceptible interval ofcolloquy on the doorstep before the strange visitor was allowed to enter.I should have liked to hear that conversation, and to know what argumentBanks used in overcoming John's reluctance to carry the astounding messagethat the chauffeur had "called" and wished to see Mr. Jervaise. But, nodoubt, John's diplomacy was equal to the occasion. Banks's fine effort inself-assertion was probably wasted. John would not mention the affront tothe family's prestige. He would imply that Banks had come in the mannerproper to his condition. "Banks wishes to know if he might speak to you aminute, sir," was all the warning poor old Jervaise would get of thisfrontal attack upon his dignities.So far I felt a certain faith in my ability to guess the hidden action ofthe drama that was being played in the Hall; but beyond this point myimagination would not carry me. I could not foresee the attitude of eitherof the two protagonists. I thought over what I remembered of myconversation with Banks on the hill, but the only essential that stuck inmy mind was that suggestion of the "pull," the admittedly unfair advantagethat he might possibly use as a last resource. I was conscious of anearnest wish that that reserve would not be called upon. I felt,intuitively, that it would shame both the chauffeur and his master. I hadstill less material for any imaginative construction of old Jervaise'spart in the scene now being played; a scene that I could only regard asbeing of the greatest moment. Indeed I believed that the conversation thentaking place would reach the climax of the whole episode, and I bitterlyregretted that I had apparently no possible chance of ever learning thedetail of that confrontation of owner and servant. Worse still, I realisedthat I might have some difficulty in gathering the upshot. Whether Bankswere accepted or rejected the Jervaises would not confide the story totheir visitors.I must admit that my curiosity was immensely piqued; though I flattermyself that my interest was quite legitimate, that it contained no elementof vulgar inquisitiveness. Nevertheless, I did want to know--the outcome,at least--and I could decide upon no intermediary who would give me justthe information I desired.Miss Tattersall I ruled out at once. She so persistently vulgarised theaffair. I felt that in her mind she regarded the elopement as subject forcommon gossip; also, that she was not free from a form of generalisedjealousy. She did not want Arthur Banks for herself, but she evidentlythought him a rather admirable masculine figure and deplored his"infatuation" for Brenda. Moreover, I had a notion that I had fallen fromMiss Tattersall's favour. There was something in her expression when shediscovered my deceit in pretending ignorance of the heroic chauffeur thatportrayed a sense of personal injury. No doubt she thought that I hadsqueezed her confidence, while I treacherously withheld my own; and shewould certainly regret that confession of having peeped into Brenda'sroom, even if she did not guess that I had inferred the final shame ofusing the keyhole. Subsequent evidence showed that my only mistake in thisconnection was a fatuous underestimation of the lady's sense of injury.Of the other members of the house-party, Frank Jervaise was the only onewho seemed likely or able to post me in the progress of the affair, and Ifelt considerable hesitation in approaching him. I could not expect areturn of that mood of weakness he had exhibited the night before; and Ihad no intention of courting a direct snub from him.There remained Banks, himself, but I could not possibly have questionedhim, even if my sympathies had still been engaged on his side.And I must admit that as I paced the lawn in front of the house mysympathies were very markedly with old Jervaise. It hurt me to rememberthat look of apprehension he had worn at breakfast. I wanted, almostpassionately, to defend him from the possibly heart-breaking consequencesthat might arise from no fault of his own.I was still pondering these feelings of compassion for my host, when thechurch-party emerged from the front door of the Hall. If my watch wereright they were very late. Mr. Sturton and his congregation would have towait ten minutes or so in patient expectation before they could begintheir devotions. And I would gladly have effaced myself if only to savethe Jervaises the vexation of a still further delay. But I was too nearthe line of their approach. Any attempt at retreat would have been apositive rudeness.I was framing an apology for not accompanying them to church as they cameup--Mrs. Jervaise and her daughter leading, with their three visitors in abunch behind. But I was spared the necessity to offer what would certainlyhave been a transparent and foolish excuse for absenting myself from theirreligious observances. Mrs. Jervaise pulled herself together as the partyapproached me. She had had her head down even more than usual as they cameout of the Hall, as if she were determined to butt her way through anyfurther obstacles that might intervene between her and her duty as aChristian. At sight of me, however, she obviously stiffened. She almostheld herself erect as she faced me; and her hawk nose jerked up like thehead of a pick."So you're not coming with us, Mr. Melhuish?" she said."I hope you will excuse me," I replied with, I hope, a proper air ofcourtesy."Of course," she said stiffly, her nose still balanced, as it were, inpreparation to strike. Then she lowered her head with the air of one whocarefully replaces a weapon, and mumbling something about being"dreadfully late as it was," continued her interrupted plunging into theresistances that separated her from her goal. The others followed, as ifthey were being trailed in her wake by invisible hawsers. None of themtook any notice of me--particularly Miss Tattersall, whose failure to seeme was a marked and positive act of omission.I realised that I had been disapproved and snubbed, but I was not at alldistressed by the fact. I put it all down to my failure in piety, begunwith my absence from prayers and now accentuated by my absence fromchurch. Olive, Nora Bailey, and Hughes had, I supposed, followed Mrs.Jervaise's lead in duty bound, and I knew nearly enough why MissTattersall had cut me. I had no idea, then, that I had come undersuspicion of a far more serious offence than that of a sectariannonconformity. Indeed, I hardly gave the matter a moment's attention. Thecomposition of the church-party had provided me with material for furtherspeculation concerning the subject that was absorbing all my interest. Whywere old Jervaise and his son also absent from the tale of those devotedpilgrims? Was that interview in the Hall developing some crucialsituation, and had Frank been called in? One thing was certain: Banks hadnot, as yet, come out. I had kept my eye on the front door. I could notpossibly have missed him.And it was with the idea of seeing what inferences I could draw from hisgeneral demeanour when he did come, rather than with any thought ofaccosting him, that I maintained my thoughtful pacing up and down the lawnon the garden side of the drive. I was relieved by the knowledge that thatparty of church-goers were out of the way. I had a feeling of freedom suchas I used to have as a boy when I had been permitted to stay at home, onsome plea or another, on a Sunday morning. I had a sense of enlargementand opportunity.       *       *       *       *       *I must have been on that lawn for more than an hour, and my thoughts hadcovered much ground that is not appropriate to this narrative, when I wasroused to a recognition of the fact that my brief freedom was passing andthat I was taking no advantage of any opportunity it might afford me.The thing that suddenly stirred me to a new activity was the sound of thestable-clock striking twelve. Its horrible bell still had the same note ofintrusive artificiality that had vexed me on the previous night, but it nolonger thrilled me with any sense of stage effect. It was merely amechanical and inappropriate invasion of that lovely Sunday morning.There was a strange stimulation, however, in the deductions that I drewfrom that portentous chiming, for my interest was at once called to thefact that this was the first time that clock had struck since I had beenon the lawn. I could not conceivably have missed its earlier efforts atthe hours of ten and eleven. There was an insistence about the beastlything that demanded one's attention. Had it, then, run down overnight andbeen recently re-wound? And if so, by whom?It may seem absurd that I should have made so much of the inferences thatfollowed my consideration of this problem, but the truth is that my mindwas so intensely occupied with one subject that everything seemed to pointto the participation of the important Arthur Banks. At any other time Ishould not have troubled about the clock; now, I looked to it forevidence. And however ridiculous it may appear, I was influenced in myexcited search for clues by the fact that the clock had, after it wasre-wound, only struck the hour of twelve. The significance of thatdeduction lay in the observation--my experience is, admittedly,limited--that clocks which have run down must be patiently made to re-tollthe hours they have missed, or they will pick up their last neglectedreminders of the time at the point at which they stopped. And from that Iinferred an esoteric knowledge of mechanics from that rewinder of thestable-clock who had got the horrid contrivance correctly going againwithout imposing upon us the misery of slowly working through an almostendless series of, as it were, historical chimes. I agree that my premiseswere faulty, far too lightly supported, but my mind leapt to the deductionthat the mechanic in this connection could be none other than Banks. Andgranting that, the further inferences were, undoubtedly, important. For asI saw them they pointed infallibly to the conclusion that Banks hadaccepted once more the yoke of servitude; that he had made his exitthrough the servants' quarters and had meekly taken up his tasks againwith the winding of the stable-clock.(I may add that strangely enough the weak inference was correct, and thewell-grounded one fallacious. If you would interpret the riddle of humanmotives, put no confidence in logic. The principles of logic are foundedon the psychology of Anyone. And Anyone is a mechanical waxwork, anintellectual abstraction, a thing without a soul or a sub-consciousness.)Having taken the side of old Jervaise, I ought to have been comforted bythis conclusion, and I tried to persuade myself that it indicated the onlysatisfactory termination to the brief drama of the night. I attempted tosee the affair as a slightly ridiculous episode that had occupied exactlytwelve hours and ended with an inevitable bathos. I pictured the return ofa disgraced and penitent Brenda, and the temporary re-employment, as anantidote to gossip, of the defeated Banks. They would be parted, ofcourse. She might be taken abroad, or to Scotland, and by the time shereturned, he would have been sent back to the country from which he hadbeen injudiciously recalled. Finally, old Jervaise would be able to takeup his life again with his old zest. I believed that he was a man who tookhis pleasures with a certain gusto. He had been quite gay at the dancebefore the coming of the scandal that had temporarily upset his peace ofmind.All this imaginary restitution was perfectly reasonable. I could "see"things happening just as I had thought them. The only trouble was that Icould find no personal satisfaction in the consideration of the Jervaises'restored happiness. I was aware of a feeling of great disappointment forwhich I could not account; and although I tried to persuade myself thatthis feeling was due to the evaporation of the emotional interest of themoving drama that had been playing, I found that explanation insufficient.I was conscious of a loss that intimately concerned myself, the loss ofsomething to which I had been unconsciously looking forward.I came out of my reverie to find that I had wandered half round the house,across the formal pleasance, and that I was now at the door leading intothe kitchen garden.I hesitated a moment with a distinct sense of wrong-doing, before I openedthe door with the air of one who defies his own conscience, and passed upthe avenue between the gouty espaliers--fine old veterans they were, andas I could see, now, loaded with splendid fruit. The iron gates that ledout into the Park were locked, but a gardener--the head gardener, Isuppose--came out of one of the greenhouses close at hand, and let methrough.I began to hurry, then. It was already twenty past twelve, and lunch wasat half-past one. Just what I proposed to do, or whom I expected to see,at the Home Farm, I had no idea; but I was suddenly determined to getthere and back before lunch. The walk would not take me more than aquarter of an hour each way, but, for no reason that I could explain, thebalance of half an hour or so that remained to me appeared far too short.I remember that as I walked through the wood, I persuaded myself that Iwanted to see Arthur Banks, who, according to my neat and convincingtheory, had taken up his work again and was, therefore, probably at theHall. But, as I have said, our impulses are never guided, and seldomaltered, by that form of reasoning known as logic.       *       *       *       *       *But I never reached the farm, and I forgot all about the pretended motiveof my excursion. For in two seconds I came to an entirely new judgment onthe whole problem of the Jervaise-Banks intrigue, a judgment that hadnothing in common with any earlier turns of sympathy from one party to theother.Such a little thing it was that temporarily turned me into a disgustedmisanthrope, nothing more than a sight of two people seen for a moment inan arresting shock of outraged amazement before I turned a disgusted backupon them and retreated moodily to the Hall. But the sight was enough tothrow the affair into a new perspective, and beget in me a sense ofcontempt for all the actors in that midsummer comedy. "A plague on bothyour houses," I muttered to myself, but I saw them no longer as theantagonists of a romantic drama. I was suddenly influenced to a mood ofscorn. Jervaises and Banks alike seemed to me unworthy of any admiration.The members of those families were just a crowd of self-seeking creatureswith no thought beyond their own petty interests. The Jervaises were snobsupset by the threat to their silly prestige. Brenda was a feather-headedmadcap without a scrap of consideration for any one but herself. Banks wasan infatuated fool, and the best I could hope for him was that he wouldrealise the fact before it was too late. Frank, confound and confound him,was a coarse-minded sensualist. The thought of him drove me crazy withimpatience....And what on earth could have tempted Anne to let him kiss her, if she hadnot been a crafty, worldly-minded schemer with an eye on the glories ofruling at the Hall?It is true that I did not actually see him kiss her. I turned away tooquickly. But the grouping left me in no doubt that if he had not kissedher already, he was on the point of doing it. In any case he had had hisarm round her, and she had shown no signs of resisting him.VIIITHE OUTCASTMy first impression of the curious change in demeanour shown towards me bythe Jervaises and their friends at lunch was that it had no existenceoutside my own recently embittered mind. I thought that I was avoidingthem, not that they were avoiding me. It was not until I condescended tocome down from my pinnacle of conscious superiority that I realised my owndisgrace.My effort at conversation with Mrs. Jervaise was a mere act of politeness."I'm afraid you were rather late this morning," I said. It was not,perhaps, a tactful remark, but I could think of nothing else. All thechurch-party were stiff with the slightly peevish righteousness of thosewho have fulfilled a duty contrary to their real inclinations.Mrs. Jervaise lifted her nose savagely. No doubt her head went with it,but only the nose was important."Very late, Mr. Melhuish," she said, stared at me as if debating whethershe would not instantly give me the coup de grace, and then dipped againto the threat of the imaginary doorway."Mr. Sturton give you a good sermon?" I continued, still suffering fromthe delusion that I was graciously overlooking their obvious inferiorityto myself."He is a very able man; very able," Mrs. Jervaise said, this time withoutlooking up."You are lucky to have such a good man as vicar," I said. "Sometimes thereis--well, a lack of sympathy between the Vicarage and the Hall. Iremember--the case isn't quite parallel, of course, but the moral is muchthe same--I remember a curate my father had once..."Now, my story of that curate is thoroughly sound. It is full of incidentand humour and not at all derogatory to the prestige of the church. I havebeen asked for it, more than once, by hostesses. And though I am rathersick of it myself, I still fall back on it in cases of such urgency as Ijudged the present one to be. I thought that I had been lucky to get soeasy an opening to produce the anecdote with relevance, and I counted onit for a good five minutes relief from the constraint of making politeconversation.Mrs. Jervaise's response began to open my eyes to the state of the newrelations that now existed between myself and the rest of the party. Shedid not even allow me to begin. She ignored my opening entirely, andlooking down the table towards her husband said, "Mr. Sturton preachedfrom the tenth of Hebrews, 'Let us hold fast the profession of our faithwithout wavering.' Quite a coincidence, wasn't it?""Indeed? Yes, quite a coincidence," Mr. Jervaise replied withoutenthusiasm. He did not look as cheerful as I had anticipated, but he worethe air of a man who has had at least a temporary reprieve."Olive and I were quite struck by it; weren't we, dear?" Mrs. Jervaisecontinued, dragging in her daughter's evidence."Yes, it was very odd," Olive agreed tepidly.I never knew what the coincidence was, but I judge from Mrs. Jervaise'sinsistence that it was something perfectly futile.I glanced across at Hughes, and guessed that he was not less bored than Iwas myself, but when I caught his eye he looked hastily away.I was beginning to wonder what I had done, but I valiantly tried again."Don't you think it possible that many cases of apparent coincidences areprobably due to telepathy?" I said genially, addressing thedangerous-looking profile of my hostess.She gave an impatient movement of her head that reminded me of a parrotviciously digging out the kernel of a nut."I really can't say," she said, pointedly turned to Gordon Hughes, who wason her other side, and asked him if he had played much tennis lately.I looked round the table for help, but none of the party would meet myeyes, avoiding my glance with a determination that could not be mistaken.I might have suffered from some loathsome deformity. Frank, alone,appeared unaware of my innocent appeal for an explanation. He was bendinggloomily over his plate, apparently absorbed in his own thoughts--thoughhow any man could be gloomy after his recent experience it was beyond meto imagine.My astonishment flamed into a feeling of acute annoyance. If any one hadspoken to me at that moment, I should have been unforgivably rude. But noone had the least intention of speaking to me, and I had just sense enoughto restrain myself from demanding an apology from the company at large.That was my natural inclination. I had been insulted; outraged. I was theJervaises' guest, and whatever they imagined that I had done, they owed itto me and to themselves to treat me with a reasonable courtesy.It was a detestable situation, and I was completely floored by it for themoment. We were not half-way through lunch, and I felt that I could notendure to sit there for another twenty minutes, avoided, proscribed, heldfast in a pillory, a butt for the sneers of any fool at the table. On theother hand, if I got up and marched out of the room, I should beacknowledging my defeat--and my guilt of whatever crime I was supposed tohave committed. If I ever wished to justify my perfect innocence, I shouldforfeit my chances, at once, by accepting the snub I had received. To dothat would be to acknowledge my sense of misbehaviour.I leaned a little forward and glanced at Miss Tattersall who was sittingjust beyond Nora Bailey on my side of the table. And I saw that my lateconfidante, the user of keyholes, was faintly smiling to herself with anunmistakable air of malicious satisfaction.I wished, then, that I had not looked. I was no longer quite so consciousof outraged innocence. It is true that I was guiltless of any realoffence, but I saw that the charge of complicity with the chauffeur--acharge that had certainly not lost in substance or in its suggestion ofperfidy by Miss Tattersall's rendering--was one that I could not whollyrefute. I was in the position of a man charged with murder on goodcircumstantial evidence; and my first furious indignation began to giveway to a detestable feeling of embarrassment, momentarily increased by thenecessity to sit in silence while the inane chatter of the luncheon tableswerved past me. If I had had one friend with whom I could have talked, Imight have been able to recover myself, but I defy any one in my situationto maintain an effective part with no active means of expression.I glanced a trifle desperately at Olive Jervaise. I judged her to berather a colourless creature who would not have the spirit openly to snubme. She was nearly opposite to me, between her brother and Hughes, andwell placed for an open attack if I could once engage her attention. Butwhen I came to consider an opening, every reasonably appropriate topicseemed to have some dangerous relation to the _affaire Brenda_. Anyreference to the dance, to the Sturtons, the place, the weather, suddenlyassumed in my mind the appearance of a subtle approach to the subject Imost wished to avoid. If I was, indeed, regarded in that house as a spy inleague with the enemy, the most innocent remark might be construed into anattempt to obtain evidence.I fancy, too, that I was subject to an influence other than the heightenedself-consciousness due to my awkward situation. I had only just begun torealise that the absence of Brenda must be a horribly insistent fact toher own family. She was so entirely different from the rest of them. Hervivacity, her spirit must have shown amidst the nervous respectability ofthis dull and fearful household like the gleam of unexpected water in theblankness of a desert. Her absence must have seemed to them a positivething. Probably every one at the table was thinking of her at that moment.And the result of this combined thought was producing a hallucination ofBrenda in my mind, strong enough to hypnotise me. In any case, herapparition stood at the end of every avenue of conversation I coulddevise. I could think of no opening that did not lead straight up to thesubject of her absence.And even while I was still pondering my problem (I had come to suchfantastic absurdities as contemplating an essay on the Chinese gamut,rejecting it on the grounds that Brenda was the only musician in thefamily), that awful lunch was abruptly closed by a unanimous refusal ofthe last course. Perhaps the others were as eager as I was to put an endto that ordeal; all of them, that is, with the exception of the spitefulsnake who was responsible for my humiliation.The family managed to get out of the room this time without their usualprocrastinating civilities. I went ahead of Frank and Hughes. I intendedto spend a lonely afternoon in thinking out some plan for exposing thetreachery of Grace Tattersall, but as I was crossing the Hall, FrankJervaise came up behind me."Look here, Melhuish," he said.I looked. I did more than that; I confronted him. There is just asuspicion of red in my hair, and on occasion the influence of it is shownin my temper. It must have shown then, for Jervaise was visiblyuncomfortable."It's no damned good being so ratty, Melhuish," he said. "Jolly well yourown fault, anyway.""What's my own fault?" I demanded."We can't talk here," he said uneasily. "Let's go down the avenue."I had an impression that he was going to offer to fight me. I certainlyhoped that he would."Very well," I agreed.But when he spoke again, I realised that it was as a lawyer and not as afighter. He had, indeed, been preparing a cautious impeachment of me. Wehad reached the entrance to the avenue before he began, and the cloisterof its cool shade seemed a sufficiently appropriate setting for hisforensic diplomacy. Outside, in the glare of the brilliant August sun, Ishould have flared out at him. In the solemnity of that Gothic aisle, Ifound influences which helped me to maintain a relative composure.He posed his first question with an assumed indifference."Why didn't you sleep in the house last night?" he asked.I took time to consider my answer; I was taken aback by his knowledge ofthe fact he had disclosed. My first impulse was to retort "How do you knowthat I didn't sleep in the house?" but I was determined to be verycautious at the outset of this cross-examination. Obviously he meant it totake the form of a cross-examination. I was equally determined that Iwould presently reverse the parts of counsel and witness--or was I theprisoner giving evidence on my own behalf?We must have gone another fifteen or twenty deliberate paces before Ireplied,--"I'll answer that question in a minute. I should like to know first whatgrounds you have for stating that I didn't sleep in the house?"He shrugged his shoulders. "You admit that you didn't?" he retorted."If you're going to conduct your conversation on the principles of thecourt room," I said, "the only thing I can do is to adopt the samemethod."He ignored that. "You admit that you didn't sleep in the house?" herepeated."I'll admit nothing until I know what the devil you're driving at," Ireplied.He did not look at me. He was saving himself until he reached thebrow-beating stage. But I was watching him--we were walking a yard or twoapart--and I noted his expression of simulated indifference andforbearance, as he condescendingly admitted my claim to demand evidencefor his preliminary accusation."You were very late coming down," he began and paused, probably to temptme into some ridicule of such a worthless piece of testimony."Go on," I said."You were seen coming into the house after eight o'clock in the morning,"he continued, paused again and then, as I kept silence, added, "In eveningdress.""Is that all?" I asked.It was not. He had kept the decisive accusation until the end."Your bed had not been slept in," he concluded wearily, as if to say, "Mygood idiot, why persist in this damning assumption of innocence?""You've been examining the servants, I see," I remarked.He was not to be drawn by such an ingenuous sneer as that. "Thehousekeeper told the mater when she came back from church," he said. "Isuppose the thing came up in some arrangement of household affairs.""Very likely," I agreed; "but why did your mother tell _you_?"I saw at once that he meant to evade that question if possible. For somereason Miss Tattersall was to be kept out of the case. Possibly she hadmade terms to that effect. More probably, I thought, Jervaise was a trifleashamed of the source of his evidence against me."Oh! look here, Melhuish," he said, with a return to his bullying manner."You're only making things look worse for yourself by all this beatingabout the bush. It's evident that you didn't sleep in the house, and Iwant to know why.""Is sleeping in the house a condition of your hospitality?" I asked."Not in ordinary circumstances," he said. "But the circumstances are notordinary. I suppose you haven't forgotten that something happened lastnight which very seriously affects us?""I haven't, but I don't see what the deuce it's got to do with me," Ireturned."Nor I; unless it's one of your idiotic, romantic tricks," he retorted;"but I have very good evidence, all the same, that you were concerned init.""Oh! is that what you're accusing me of?" I said."It is," Jervaise replied."Then I can put your mind at rest," I said. "I am ready to swear by anyoath you like that I had nothing whatever to do with your sister'selopement, and that I know..." I was going to add "nothing more about itthan you do yourself," but remembering my talk with Banks, I decided thatthat was not perfectly true, and with the layman's respect for thesanctity of an oath I concluded, "and that I know very little more aboutit than _you_ do.""It's that little bit more that is so important," Jervaise commentedsardonically.After all, a legal training does count for something. I was not his matchin this kind of give and take, and I decided to throw down my hand. I wasnot incriminating Banks. I knew nothing about his movements of the night,and in that morning interview with old Jervaise the most importantadmission of all must almost certainly have been made."Well, you have a right to know that," I began, "although I don't thinkyou and your family had any right whatever to be so damnably rude to me atlunch, on the mere spiteful accusations of Miss Tattersall.""Miss Tattersall?" Jervaise put in, with a very decent imitation ofsurprise."Oh! I'm going to be perfectly honest with you," I returned. "Can't youdrop that burlesque of the legal manner and be equally honest with me?""Simply dunno what you're driving at," he said."Very well, then, answer the question you shirked just now," I retorted."Why did your mother rush to tell you that I hadn't slept in the houselast night?""The mater's in an awful state of nerves," he said.Incidentally I had to admit to myself that I had not made sufficientallowance for that indubitable fact, but I chose to disregard it at themoment. I wanted to be sure of the treachery of Grace Tattersall."You asked me not to beat about the bush, a minute ago," I said, "and nowyou're trying to dodge all my questions with the most futile and palpableevasions.""For instance?" he replied calmly, with a cunning that nearly trapped me.For when I tried to recall, as I thought I could, a specific andconvincing instance of his evasion, I realised that to cite a case wouldonly draw us into an irrelevant bickering over side issues."Your last three or four answers were all obvious equivocations," I said,and raising my voice I went straight on over his attempt to expostulate byadding, "And if Mrs. Jervaise's state of nerves is an excuse for herconfiding in _you_, it isn't, in my opinion, any excuse for her confidingin Miss Tattersall and Nora Bailey and Hughes, and setting them onto--ostracise me.""Oh! come," Jervaise protested, a little taken aback. I had put him in aquandary, now. He had to choose between an imputation on his mother's goodtaste, savoir faire, breeding--and an admission of the rather shamefulsource of the present accusation against me."As a matter of fact, it's absolutely clear to me that Grace Tattersall isat the bottom of all this," I continued, to get this point settled. "I'mperfectly sure your mother would not have treated me as she did unless hermind had been perverted in some way.""But why should she--Miss Tattersall--I mean she seemed rather keen onyou...""I can explain that," I interrupted him. "She wanted to gossip with meabout the whole affair this morning, and she made admissions that Isuppose she was subsequently ashamed of. And after that she discovered byan accident that I had met Banks, and jumped to the totally falseconclusion that I had been drawing her out for my own disreputablepurposes.""Where did you meet Banks?" was Jervaise's only comment on thisexplanation."I'm going to tell you that," I said. "I told you that I meant to beperfectly honest with you, but I want to know first if I'm not right aboutMiss Tattersall.""She has been a bit spiteful about you," he admitted."So that's settled," I replied by way of finally confirming his admission."Now, I'll tell you exactly what happened last night."I made a fairly long story of it; so long that we reached the lodge at thePark gates before I had finished, and turned back again up the avenue. Iwas careful to be scrupulously truthful, but I gave him no record of anyconversation that I thought might, however indirectly, inculpate Banks.Jervaise did not once interrupt me, but I saw that he was listening withall his attention, studying my statement as he might have studied acomplicated brief. And when I had done, he thrust out his ugly underlipwith an effect of sneering incredulity that I found almost unendurablyirritating."Do you mean to say that you don't believe me?" I asked passionately.We were just opposite the side road that I had taken the night before, theroad that led through the thickest part of the spinney before it came outinto the open within a quarter of a mile of Jervaise Clump. And as if bothour minds had been unconsciously occupied with the same thought, the needfor a still greater privacy, we turned out of the avenue with an air ofdeliberate intention and a marked increase of pace. It seemed as thoughthis secluded alley had, from the outset, been the secret destination ofour walk.He did not reply to my challenging question for perhaps a couple ofminutes. We were walking quite quickly, now. Until the heat of our risinganger could find some other expression, we had to seek relief in physicalaction. I had no doubt that Jervaise in his own more restrained way was asangry as I was myself. His sardonic sneer had intensified until it tookthe shape of a fierce, brooding anger.We were out of sight of the junction of the side road with the avenue,when he stopped suddenly and faced me. He had manifestly gathered himselftogether for a great effort that was, as it were, focussed in themalignant, dominating scowl of his forbidding face. The restraint of hislanguage added to the combined effect--consciously studied, no doubt--ofcoarse and brutal authority."And why did you spy on me this morning?" he asked. "Why did you follow meup to the Home Farm, watch me while I was talking to Miss Banks, and thenslink away again?"I have two failings that would certainly have disqualified me if I hadever attempted to adopt the legal profession. The first is a tendency toblush violently on occasion. The second is to see and to sympathise withmy opponent's point of view. Both these failings betrayed me now. Theblush seemed to proclaim my guilt; my sudden understanding of Jervaise'stemper confirmed it.For, indeed, I understood precisely at that moment how enraged he must beagainst me. He, like Miss Tattersall, had been playing an underhand game,though his was different in kind. He had been seduced (my bitternessagainst Anne found satisfaction in laying the blame at her door!) intobetraying the interests of his own family. _I_ did not, in a sense, blamehim for that; I had, the night before, been more than a little inclined tohonour him for it; but I saw how, from the purely Jervaise point of view,his love-making would appear as something little short of criminal. And tobe caught in the act, for I had caught him, however unwillingly, must havebeen horribly humiliating for him. Little wonder that coming home, hot andashamed from his rendezvous, and being confronted with all the tale of myduplicity, he had flamed into a fury of resentment against me. Iunderstood that beyond any question. Only one point still puzzled me. Howhad he been able until this moment to restrain his fury? I could butsuppose that there was something cold-blooded, calculating, almostreptilian in his character; that he had planned cautiously andfar-sightedly what he regarded as the best means for bringing about myultimate disgrace.And now my blush and my powers of sympathy had betrayed me. I felt like aconvicted criminal as I said feebly, "Oh! that was an accident, absolutelyan accident, I assure you. I had no sort of idea where you were when Iwent up to the Home Farm....""After keeping an eye on the front of the house all the morning," he putin viciously.A sense of awful frustration overcame me. Looking back on the past fifteenhours, I saw all my actions ranged in a long incriminating series. Eachone separately might be explained, but regarded as a consequent series,those entirely inconsequent doings of mine could bear but one explanation:I was for some purpose of my own, whether idiotically romantic or not, onthe side of Banks and Brenda. I had never lifted a finger to help them; Iwas not in their confidence; and since the early morning I had withdrawn ameasure of my sympathy from them. But I could not prove any of thesethings. I could only affirm them, and this domineering bully, who stoodglowering at me, wanted proof or nothing. He was too well accustomed tothe methods of criminals to accept explanations."You don't believe me?" I said."Candidly, I don't," he replied.And at that my temper finally blazed. I could not bear any longer eitherthat awful sense of frustration or the sight of Frank Jervaise's absurdlyportentous scowl.I did not clench my fists, but I presume my purpose showed suddenly in myface, for he moved quickly backwards with a queer, nervous jerk of thehead that was the precise counterpart of the parrot-like twist his motherhad given at the luncheon table. It was an odd movement, at once timid andvicious, and in an instant I saw the spirit of Frank Jervaise revealed tome. He was a coward, hiding his weakness under that coarse mask of thebrooding, relentless hawk. He had winced and retreated at my unspokenthreat, as he had winced at the thought of his thrashing at school. He hadtaken his punishment stoically enough then, and might take another withequal fortitude now; though he had been weakened in the past five or sixyears by the immunity his frowning face had won for him. But he could notmeet the promise of a thrashing. I saw that he would do anything, make anyadmission, to avoid that."Look here, Melhuish..." he began, but I cut him short."Oh! go to hell," I said savagely.I was disappointed. I wanted to fight him. I knew now that since the sceneI had witnessed in the wood the primitive savage in me had been longingfor some excuse to break out in its own primitive, savage way. And onceagain I was frustrated. I was just too civilised to leap at him withoutfurther excuse.He gave me none."If you're going to take that tone..." he said with a ridiculousaffectation of bravado, and did not complete his sentence. His evasionwas, perhaps, the best that he could have managed in the circumstances. Itwas so obvious that only the least further incentive was required to makeme an irresponsible madman. And he dared not risk it.He turned away with a pretence of dignity, the craven brag of a schoolboywho says, "I could lick you if I wanted to, but I don't happen to wantto." I watched him as he walked back towards the avenue with adeliberation that was so artificial, I could swear that when he reachedthe turn he would break into a run.I stood still in the same place long after he was out of sight. As myshort-lived passion evaporated, I began to realise that I was really in avery awkward situation. I could not and would not return to the Hall. Ihad offended Frank Jervaise beyond all hope of reconciliation. He wouldnever forgive me for that exposure of his cowardice. And if I had not hada single friend at the house before, I could, after the new report of mytreachery had been spread by Frank, expect nothing but the bitterness ofopen enemies. No doubt they would essay a kind of frigid politeness, theirsocial standards would enforce some show of outward courtesy to a guest.But I simply could not face the atmosphere of the Hall again. And here Iwas without my luggage, without even a hat, and with no idea where I couldfind refuge. The only idea I had was that of walking fifteen miles toHurley Junction on the chance of getting a train back to town.It was an uncommonly queer situation for a perfectly innocent man,week-ending at a country house. I should have been ashamed to face thecritics if I had made so improbable a situation the crux of a play. Butthe improbability of life constantly outruns the mechanical inventions ofthe playwright and the novelist. Where life, with all its extravagances,fails, is in its refusal to provide the apt and timely coincidence thatshall solve the problem of the hero. As I walked on slowly towardsJervaise Clump, I had little hope of finding the peculiarly appropriatevehicle that would convey me to Hurley Junction; and I did not relish thethought of that fifteen mile walk, without a hat.I kept to the road, skirting the pudding basin hill, and came presently tothe fence of the Park and to what was evidently a side gate--not animposing wrought-iron erection between stone pillars such as that whichannounced the front entrance, but just a rather high-class six-barredgate.I hesitated a minute or two, with the feelings of one who leaves thesafety of the home enclosure for the unknown perils of the wild, and thenwith a sigh of resignation walked boldly out on to the high road.I had no notion in which direction Hurley Junction lay, but luck was withme, so far. There was a fourth road, opposite the Park gate, and asign-post stood at the junction of what may once have been the maincross-roads--before some old Jervaise land-robber pushed the park out onthis side until he was stopped by the King's highway.On the sign-post I read the indication that Hurley Junction was distant14-1/2 miles, and that my direction was towards the north; but I felt amarked disinclination to begin my walk.It was very hot, and the flies were a horrible nuisance. I stood under theshadow of the hedge, flapped a petulant handkerchief at the detestablyannoying flies, and stared down the road towards the far, invisibledistances of Hurley. No one was in sight. The whole country was plunged inthe deep slumber of a Sunday afternoon, and I began to feel uncommonlysleepy myself. I had, after all, only slept for a couple of hours or sothat morning.I yawned wearily and my thoughts ran to the refrain of "fourteen and ahalf miles; fourteen and a half miles to Hurley Junction.""Oh! well," I said to myself at last. "I suppose it's got to be done," andI stepped out into the road, and very lazily and wearily began my awfultramp. The road ran uphill, in a long curve encircling the base of thehill, and I suppose I took about ten minutes to reach the crest of therise. I stayed there a moment to wipe my forehead and slap peevishly at myaccompanying swarm of flies. And it was from there I discovered that I hadstumbled upon another property of the Jervaise comedy. Their car--Iinstantly concluded that it was their car--stood just beyond the rise,drawn in on to the grass at the side of the road, and partly covered witha tarpaulin--it looked, I thought, like a dissipated roysterer asleep inthe ditch.I decided, then, without the least compunction, that this should be myheaven-sent means of reaching the railway. The Jervaises owed me that; andI could leave the car at some hotel at Hurley and send the Jervaises atelegram. I began to compose that telegram in my mind as I threw off thetarpaulin preparatory to starting the car. But Providence was onlylaughing at me. The car was there and the tank was full of petrol, butneither the electric starter nor the crank that I found under the seatwould produce anything but the most depressing and uninspired clankingfrom the mechanism that should have responded with the warm, encouragingthud of renewed life.I swore bitterly (I can drive, but I'm no expert), climbed into thetonneau, pulled back the tarpaulin over me like a tent to exclude thosepestilent flies, and settled myself down to draw one or two deep andpenetrating inductions.My first was that Banks had brought the car here the night before with thefixed intention of abducting Brenda Jervaise.My second was that the confounded fellow had cautiously removed someessential part of the car's mechanism.My third, that he would have to come back and fetch the car sometime, andthat I would then blackmail him into driving me to Hurley Junction.I did not trouble to draw a fourth induction. I was cool and comfortableunder the shadow of the cover. The flies, although there were manyopenings for them, did not favour the darkness of my tent. I leaned wellback into the corner of the car and joined the remainder of the county ina calm and restful sleep.IXBANKSI was awakened by the sound of footsteps on the road--probably the firstfootsteps that had passed during the hour and a half that I had beenasleep. I was still lazily wondering whether it was worth while to lookout, when the tarpaulin was smartly drawn off the car and revealed me tothe eyes of the car's guardian, Arthur Banks.His first expression was merely one of surprise. He looked as startled asif he had found any other unlikely thing asleep in the car. Then I saw hissurprise give way to suspicion. His whole attitude stiffened, and I wasgiven an opportunity to note that he was one of those men who grow cooland turn pale when they are angry.My first remark to him was ill-chosen."I've been waiting for you," I said.Probably my last thought before I went to sleep had concerned the hopethat Banks would be the first person I should see when I woke; and thatthought now came up and delivered itself almost without my knowledge."They have put you in charge, I suppose," he returned grimly. "Well, youneedn't have worried. I'd just come to take the car back to the house."I had again been taken for a spy, but this time I was not stirred torighteous indignation. The thing had become absurd. I had for all intentsand purposes been turned out of Jervaise Hall for aiding and abettingBanks, and now he believed me to be a sort of prize crew put aboard thediscovered motor by the enemy.My situation had its pathetic side. I had, by running away, finallybranded myself in the Jervaises' eyes as a mean and despicable traitor tomy own order; and now it appeared that I was not to be afforded even thesatisfaction of having proved loyal to the party of the Home Farm. I was apariah, the suspect of both sides, the ill-treated hero of a romanticnovel. I ought to have wept, but instead of that I laughed.Perhaps I was still a little dazed by sleep, for I was under theimpression that any kind of explanation would be quite hopeless, and Ihad, then, no intention of offering any. All I wanted was to be taken toHurley Junction; to get back to town and forget the Jervaises' existence.Banks's change of expression when I laughed began to enlighten my fuddledunderstanding. I realised that I had no longer to deal with a suspicious,wooden-headed lawyer, but with a frank, kindly human being."I don't see the joke," he said, but his look of cold anger was fadingrapidly."The joke," I said, "is a particularly funny one. I have quarrelled withthe entire Jervaise family and their house-party. I have been openlyaccused by Frank Jervaise of having come to Thorp-Jervaise solely to aidyou in your elopement; and my duplicity being discovered I hastened to runaway, leaving all my baggage behind, in the fear of being stood up againsta wall and shot at sight. I set out, I may add, to walk fourteen miles toHurley Junction, but on the way I discovered this car, from which you seemto have extracted some vital organ. So I settled myself down to wait untilyou should return with its heart, or lungs, or whatever it is you removed.And now, my dear chap, I beseech you to put the confounded thing rightagain and drive me to Hurley. I've suffered much on your account. It'sreally the least you can do by way of return."He stared at me in amazement."But, honestly, no kid..." he remarked.I saw that, naturally enough, he could not make head or tail of my story."Oh! it's all perfectly true, in effect," I said. "I can't go intodetails. As a matter of fact, all the Jervaises' suspicions came about asa result of our accidental meeting on the hill last night. I said nothingabout it to them, you understand; and then they found out that I hadn'tslept in the house, and Miss Tattersall discovered by accident that I knewyou by sight--that was when you came up to the house this morning--andafter that everything I've ever done since infancy has somehow gone toprove that my single ambition in life has always been to help you inabducting Brenda Jervaise. Also, I wanted to fight Frank Jervaise an houror two ago in the avenue. So, my dear Banks, have pity on me and help meto get back to London."Banks grinned. "No getting back to London to-night," he said. "Last trainwent at 3.19.""Well, isn't there some hotel in the neighbourhood?" I asked.He hesitated, imaginatively searching the county for some hotel worthy ofreceiving me."There's nothing decent nearer than Godbury," he said. "Twenty-threemiles. There's an inn at Hurley of a sort. There's no town there to speakof, you know. It's only a junction.""Oh! well, I'll risk the inn at Hurley for one night," I said."What about your things?" he asked."Blast!" was my only comment."Rummest go I ever heard of," Banks interjected thoughtfully. "You don'tmean as they've actually _turned you out?_""Well, no, not exactly," I explained. "But I couldn't possibly go backthere.""What about writing a note for your things?" he suggested. "I'd take itup.""And ask them to lend me the motor?""I don't expect they'd mind," he said."Perhaps not. Anything to get rid of me," I returned. "But I'm not goingto ask them any favours. I don't mind using the bally thing--they owe methat--but I'm not going to ask them for it.""Must have been a fair old bust up," he commented, evidently curious stillabout my quarrel at the Hall."I told you that it ended with my wanting to fight Frank Jervaise," Ireminded him.He grinned again. "How did he get out of it?" he asked."What makes you think he wanted to get out of it?" I retorted.He measured me for a moment with his eye before he said, "Mr. Frank isn'tthe fighting sort. I've seen him go white before now, when I've took thecorner a bit sharp." He paused a moment before adding, "But they're all abit like that.""Nervous at dangerous corners," I commented, sharpening his image for him."Blue with funk," he said.It occurred to me that possibly some hint of the family taint in Brendahad influenced, at the last moment, the plan of her proposed elopement;but I said nothing of that to Banks."I'd better leave my things," I said, returning to the subject which wasof chief importance to me. You take me to that inn at Hurley. If I arrivein a motor, they'll take me in all right, even though I haven't anyluggage. I'll invent some story as we go.""They'd take you _in_," Banks replied thoughtfully. "'Tisn't hardly morethan a public house, really."I thought that some strain of the gentleman's servant in him was concernedwith the question of the entertainment proper to my station."It's only for one night," I remarked."Oh! yes," he said, obviously thinking of something else."Too far for you to go?" I asked.He glanced at his wrist watch. "Quarter past five," he said. "It'd take methe best part of two hours to get there and back--the road's none toogood.""You don't want to go?" I said."Well, no, honestly I don't," he replied. "The fact is I want to see Mr.Jervaise again." He smiled as he added, "My little affair isn't settledyet by a good bit, you see."I sheered away from that topic; chiefly, I think, because I wanted toavoid any suggestion of pumping him. When you have recently been brandedas a spy, you go about for the next few days trying not to feel like one."Isn't there any place in the village I could go to?" I asked.He shook his head. "There's one pub--a sort of beerhouse--but they don'ttake people in," he said."No lodgings?" I persisted."The Jervaises don't encourage that sort of thing," he replied. "Afraid ofthe place getting frippery. I've heard them talking about it in the car.And as they own every blessed cottage in the place...." He left thededuction to my imagination, and continued with the least touch ofbashfulness, "You wouldn't care to come to us, I suppose?""To the Home Farm?" I replied stupidly. I was absurdly embarrassed. If Ihad not chanced to see that grouping in the wood before lunch, I shouldhave jumped at the offer. But I knew that it must have been Miss Banks whohad seen me--spying. Jervaise had had his back to me. And she wouldprobably, I thought, take his view of the confounded accident. She wouldbe as anxious to avoid me as I was to avoid her. Coming so unexpectedly,this invitation to the Farm appeared to me as a perfectly impossiblesuggestion.Banks, naturally, misinterpreted my embarrassment."I suppose it would put you in the wrong, as it were--up at the Hall," hesaid. "Coming to us after that row, I mean, 'd look as if what they'd beensaying was all true.""I don't care a hang about _that_," I said earnestly. In my relief atbeing able to speak candidly I forgot that I was committing myself to anexplanation; and Banks inevitably wandered into still more shamefulmisconceptions of my implied refusal."Only a farm, of course..." he began."Oh! my dear chap," I interposed quickly. "Do believe me, I'd far soonerstay at the Home Farm than at Jervaise Hall."He looked at me with rather a blank stare of inquiry."Well, then?" was all he found to say.I could think of nothing whatever.For a second or two we stared at one another like antagonists searchingfor an unexposed weakness. He was the first to try another opening."Fact is, I suppose," he said tentatively, "that you'd like to be out ofthis affair altogether? Had enough of it, no doubt?"I might have accepted that suggestion without hurting Banks'sself-respect. I saw the excuse as a possibility that provided anhonourable way of escape. I had but to say, "Well, in a way, yes. I have,in all innocence, got most confoundedly entangled in an affair that hasn'tanything whatever to do with me, and it seems that the best thing I can donow is to clear out." He would have believed that. He would have seen thejustice of it. But the moment this easy way of escape was made clear tome, I knew that I did not want to take it; that in spite of everything, Iwanted, almost passionately, to go to the Home Farm.I was aware of a sudden clarity of vision. The choice that lay before meappeared suddenly vital; a climax in my career, a symbol of the essentialchoice that would determine my future.On the one hand was the security of refusal. I could return, unaffected,to my familiar life. Presently, when the Jervaise nerves had become normalagain, the Jervaises themselves would recognise the egregious blunder theyhad made in their treatment of me. They would apologise--through Frank.And I should go on, as I had begun. I was already decently successful. Ishould become more successful. I could look forward to increased financialsecurity, to a measure of fame, to all that is said to make life worthliving. And as I saw it, then, the whole prospect of that easy future,appeared to me as hopelessly boring, worthless, futile.On the other hand...? I had no idea what awaited me on the other hand. Icould see that I should have to accept the stigma that had been put uponme; that I should be thrown into the company of a young woman whosepersonality had extraordinarily attracted me, who probably detested me,and who might now be engaged to a man I very actively disliked; that Ishould involve myself in an affair that had not fully engaged my sympathy(I still retained my feeling of compassion for old Jervaise); that Ishould, in short, be choosing the path of greatest resistance andunpleasantness, with no possibility of getting any return other than scornand disgrace.I saw these alternatives in a flash, and no sane man would have hesitatedbetween them for one moment."But look here, Banks," I said. "What would your mother and--and yoursister say to having an unknown visitor foisted upon them without notice?""Oh! that'd be all right," he said with conviction."There's nothing I should like better than to stay with you," I continued,"if I thought that your--people would care to have me.""Well, as a matter of fact," he said, "my father and mother haven't comehome yet. They drove over to some relations of ours about twelve milesaway, yesterday afternoon, and they won't be back till about seven,probably. Last chance my father had before harvest, and my mother likes toget away now and again when she can manage it.""They don't know yet, then, about you and...?" I said, momentarilydiverted by the new aspect this news put on the doings of the night."Not yet. That'll be all right, though," Banks replied, and added as anafterthought, "The old man may be a bit upset. I want to persuade 'em allto come out to Canada, you see. There's a chance there. Mother would comelike a shot, but I'm afraid the old man'll be a bit difficult.""But, then, look here, Banks," I said. "You won't want a stranger up thereto-night of all nights--interfering with your--er--family council."Banks scratched his head with a professional air. "I dunno," he said. "Itmight help." He looked at me reflectively before adding, "You know She'sup there--of course?""I didn't," I replied. "Was she there last night when Jervaise and I wentup?"He shook his head. "We meant to go off together and chance it," he said."May as well tell you now. There's no secret about it among ourselves. Andthen she came out to me on the hill without her things--just in a cloak.Came to tell me it was all off. Said she wouldn't go, that way.... Well,we talked.... Best part of three hours. And the end of it was, she cameback to the Farm.""And it isn't all off?" I put in."The elopement is," he said."But not the proposed marriage?"He leaned against the door of the car with the air of one who is preparingfor a long story. "You're sure you want to hear all this?" he asked."Quite sure--that is, if you want to tell me," I said. "And if I'm cominghome with you, it might be as well if I knew exactly how things stand.""I felt somehow as if you and me were going to hit it off, last night," heremarked shyly."So did I," I rejoined, not less shy than he was.Our friendship had been admitted and confirmed. No further word wasneeded. We understood each other. I felt warmed and comforted. It was goodto be once more in the confidence of a fellowman. I have not the stuff inme that is needed to make a good spy."Well, the way things are at present," Banks hurried on to cover our lapseinto an un-British sentimentality, "is like this. We'd meant, as I toldyou, to run away....""And then she was afraid?""No, it was rather the other way round. It was me that was afraid. Yousee, I thought I should take all the blame off the old man by going offwith her--him being away and all, I didn't think as even the Jervaisescould very well blame it on to him, overlooking what she pointed out, asonce we'd gone they'd simply have to get rid of him, too, blame or noblame. They'd never stand having him and mother and Anne within a mile ofthe Hall, as sort of relations. _I_ ought to have seen that, but oneforgets these things at the time."I nodded sympathetically."So what it came to," he continued, "was that we might as well face it outas not. She's like that--likes to have things straight and honest. So doI, for the matter of that; but once you've been a gentleman's servant itgets in your blood or something. I was three years as groom and so on upat the Hall before I went to Canada. Should have been there now if ithadn't been for mother. I was only a lad of sixteen when I went intoservice, you see, and when I came back I got into the old habits again. Itell you it's difficult once you've been in service to get out o' the wayof feeling that, well, old Jervaise, for instance, is a sort of littlelord god almighty.""I can understand that," I agreed, and added, "but I'm rather sorry forhim, old Jervaise. He has been badly cut up, I think."Banks looked at me sharply, with one of his keen, rather challenging turnsof expression. "Sorry for him? You needn't be," he said. "I could tell yousomething--at least, I can't--but you can take it from me that you needn'twaste your pity on him."I realised that this was another reference to that "pull" I had heard of,which could not be used, and was not even to be spoken of to me after Ihad been admitted to Banks's confidence. I realised, further, that myguessing must have gone hopelessly astray. Here was the suggestion ofsomething far more sinister than a playing on the old man's affection forhis youngest child."Very well, I'll take it from you," I said. "On the other hand, you cantake it from me that old Jervaise is very much upset."Banks smiled grimly. "He's nervous at dangerous corners, like you said,"he returned. "However, we needn't go into that--the point is as I began totell you, that we've decided to face it out; and well, you saw me go up tothe Hall this morning.""What happened?" I asked."Nothing," Banks said. "I saw the old man and Mr. Frank, and they wereboth polite in a sort of way--no shouting nor anything, though, of course,Mr. Frank tried to browbeat me--but very firm that nothing had got tohappen; no engagement or running away or anything. She was to come homeand I was to go back to Canada--they'd pay my fare and so on...""And you?""Me? I just stuck to it we were going to get married, and Mr. Frank triedto threaten me till the old man stopped him, and then I came out.""Did you wind up the stable-clock?" I put in."Yes. I forgot it last night," he said. "And I hate to see a thing notworking properly."Dear Banks! I did not know, then, how characteristic that was of him.I returned to the subject in hand."What do you propose to do, then?" I asked. "To get their consent?""Just stick to it," he said."You think they'll give way?""They'll have to, in the end," he affirmed gravely, and continued in acolder voice that with him indicated a flash of temper. "It's just theirrespectability they care about, that's all. If they were fond of her, orshe of them, it would be another thing altogether. But she's different toall the others, and they've never hit it off, she and them, amongthemselves. Why, they treat her quite differently to the others; to MissOlive, for instance.""Do they?" I said, in astonishment. I had been romantically picturingBrenda as the favourite child, and I could not, at once, see her in thisnew light."She never got on with 'em, somehow," Banks said. "Anyway, not when theywere alone. Always rows of one sort or another. They couldn't understandher, of course, being so different to the others."I was not satisfied with this explanation, but I did not press him forfurther details. His insistence on Brenda's difference from the rest ofthe Jervaises was evidently as far as he could get. The difference wasobvious enough, certainly, but he would naturally exaggerate it. He was,as Miss Tattersall had said, "infatuated," but I put a more kindlyconstruction on the description than she had done--perhaps "enthralled"would have been a better word.We had come to a pause. His confidences were exhausted for the present. Hehad told me all that it was necessary for me to know before I met Brendaand his sister; and I waited for him, now, to renew his invitation. Ipreferred that _he_ should re-open that subject; but he came to it ratherobliquely."Well!" he remarked. "Might as well be getting on, I suppose?"I nodded and got out of the car."Can you find your way up?" he proceeded."Alone?" I asked."It's only about half a mile," he explained, "You can't miss it. You see,I want to get the car back to the house. Don't do it any good standingabout here. Besides, it wouldn't do for them to think as I was holding itover them."Even the picture of a herculean Banks holding that car over the Jervaisesfailed to divert me, just then. I was too much occupied with my newfriend's simple absence of tact. I would sooner have faced a return to theHall than an unsupported appearance at the Farm."Oh! I'm not going up there alone," I said.Banks was honestly surprised. "Why not?" he asked. "You met Anne lastnight, didn't you? That'll be all right. You tell her I told you to comeup. _She'll_ understand."I shook my head. "It won't take you long to run up to the Hall and put thecar in," I said. "I'll cut across the Park and meet you in that wood justbelow your house--the way that Jervaise and I went last night."He looked distressed. He could not understand my unwillingness to goalone, but his sense of what was due to me would not permit him to let mewait for him in the wood."But, I can't see..." he began, and then apparently realising that he wasfailing either in respect or in hospitality, he continued, "Oh! well, I'lljust run up with you at once; it won't take us ten minutes, and half anhour one way or the other won't make any difference."I accepted his sacrifice without further protestation; and after he hadcarefully replaced the tarpaulin over the tonneau of the car, we set offbriskly towards the Farm. About a third of a mile farther on we left thehighroad for a side road, and another three or four minutes' walk up thehill brought us to the main entrance to the Farm. I saw, now, that I hadcome with Jervaise to a side door last night. This front approach was moreimposing--up a drive through an avenue of limes. The house seen from thisaspect looked very sweet and charming. It was obviously of a date notlater than the sixteenth century, and I guessed that the rough-castprobably concealed a half-timber work structure. In front of it was a goodstrip of carefully kept lawn and flower garden. The whole place had an airof dignity and beauty that I had not expected, and I think Banks must havenoticed my surprise, for he said,--"Not bad, is it? Used to be a kind of dower house once upon a time, theysay.""Absolutely charming," I replied. "Now, this is the sort of house I shouldlike to live in.""I dare say it'll be to let before long," Banks said with a touch of grimhumour."Not to me, though," I said.He laughed. "Perhaps not," he agreed.We had paused at the end of the little avenue for me to take in the effectof the house, and as we still stood there, the sound of a man's voice cameto us through the open window of one of the rooms on the ground floor."Your father's home sooner than you expected," I remarked."That's not the old man," Banks said in a tone that instantly diverted mygaze from the beauties of the Home Farm."Who is it, then?" I asked."Listen!" he said. He was suddenly keen, alert and suspicious. I saw himno longer as the gentleman's servant, the product of the Jervaise estate,but as the man who had knocked about the world, who often preferred tosleep in the open."There are two of them there," he said; "Frank Jervaise and that youngfellow Turnbull, if I'm not mistaken." And even as he spoke he beganhurriedly to cross the little lawn with a look of cold anger anddetermination that I was glad was not directed against myself.As I followed him, it came into my mind to wonder whether Frank Jervaisehad taken me with him as a protection the night before? Had he been afraidof meeting Banks? I had hitherto failed to find any convincing reason forJervaise's queer mark of confidence in me.XTHE HOME FARMI must own that I was distinctly uncomfortable as I followed Banks intothe same room in which I had sat on my previous visit to the Home Farm.The influence of tradition and habit would not let me alone. I carednothing for the Jervaises' opinion, but I resented the unfairness of itand had all the innocent man's longing to prove his innocence--a feat thatwas now become for ever impossible. By accepting Banks's invitation, I hadconfirmed the worst suspicions the Jervaises could possibly have harbouredagainst me.Indeed, it seems probable that I was now revealing more shameful depths ofduplicity than their most depraved imaginings had been able to picture. AsI entered the room, I looked first at Frank, and his dominant emotion,just then, appeared to be surprise. For a moment I had a sense ofreprieve. I guessed that he had not been truly convinced of the truth ofhis own accusations against me. But any relief I may have felt wasdissipated at once. I saw Jervaise's look of surprise give place to a kindof perplexed anger, an expression that I could only read as conveying hisamazement that any gentleman (I am sure his thought was playing about thatword) could be such a blackguard as I was now proving myself to be.Ronnie Turnbull, also, evidently shared that opinion. The boyish andrather theatrical movement with which he turned his back upon me, showedat once that he had been coached in the suspicions that were now sofinally clinched."This fellow simply isn't worth speaking to," was the inarticulate messageof his gesture.And certainly I gave neither of them any occasion to speak to me. Banks'sopening plunged us into one of those chaotic dialogues which are only mademore confused by any additional contribution."What have you come up here for?" Banks asked, displaying his immediatedetermination to treat the invaders without respect of class on thiscommon ground of his father's home."That's our affair," Frank snapped. He looked nervously vicious, Ithought, like a timid-minded dog turned desperate."What the devil do you mean?" Turnbull asked at the same moment, andBrenda got up from her chair and tried to address some explanation to herlover through the ominous preparatory snarlings of the melee.I heard her say, "Arthur! They've been trying to..." but lost the rest inthe general shindy.Turnbull, by virtue of his lung-power, was the most audible of the four."You've jolly well got to understand, my good man," he was saying, "thatthe sooner you get out of this the better"; and went on with morefoolishness about Banks having stolen the motor--all painfully tactlessstuff, if he still had the least intention of influencing Brenda, but hewas young and arrogant and not at all clever.Banks and Jervaise were sparring at each other all the time that Turnbullfulminated, and Brenda's soprano came in like a flageolet obbligato--aword or two here and there ringing out with a grateful clearness above themasculine accompaniment.I dared, in the confusion, to glance at Anne, and she looked up at me atthe same moment. She was slightly withdrawn from the tumult that drewtogether about the counter of the sturdy oak table in the centre of theroom. She was sitting in the towering old settle by the fireplace, leaninga little forward as if she awaited her opportunity to spring in anddetermine the tumult when something of this grotesque male violence hadbeen exhausted.She looked at me, I thought, with just a touch of supplication, a lookthat I misinterpreted as a request to use my influence in stopping thisdin of angry voices that was so obviously serving no useful purpose. But Ifelt no inclination to respond to that appeal of hers. I had an idea thatshe might be going to announce her engagement to Jervaise, an announcementthat would critically affect the whole situation; and I had no wish tohelp her in solving the immediate problem by those means.Perhaps she read in my face something of the sullen resentment I wasfeeling, for she leaned back quickly into the corner of the settle, with amovement that seemed to indicate a temporary resignation to theinevitable. I saw her as taking cover from this foolish masculine dinabout the table; but I had no doubt that she was still awaiting heropportunity.It was Jervaise who brought back the unintelligible disputants toreasonable speech. He stopped speaking, stepped back on to the hearth-rug,and then addressed the loudly vociferous Turnbull."Ronnie!" Jervaise said in a tone that arrested attention, and having gothis man's ear, added, "Half a minute!""But look here, you know," Turnbull protested, still on the same note ofaggressive violence. "What I mean to say is that this feller seems toconfoundedly well imagine...""Do for God's sake _shut up!_" Jervaise returned with a scowl."I suppose you think that I haven't any right..." Turnbull began in arather lower voice; and Brenda at last finding a chance to make herselfheard, finished him by saying quickly,--"Certainly you haven't; no right whatever to come here--and _brawl_..."She spoke breathlessly, as though she were searching in the briefinterlude of an exhausting struggle for some insult that would fatallywound and offend him. She tried to show him in a sentence that he wasnothing more to her than a blundering, inessential fool, interfering inimportant business that was no concern of his. And although the hurry ofher mind did not permit her to find the deadly phrase she desired, thesharpness of her anxiety to wound him was clear enough."Oh! of course, if you think that..." he said, paused as if seeking forsome threat of retaliation, and then flung himself, the picture ofdudgeon, into a chair by the wall. He turned his back towards Brenda andglared steadfastly at his rival. I received the impression that the poordeluded boy was trying to revenge himself on Brenda. At the back of hismind he seemed still to regard her escapade as a foolish piece of bravado,undertaken chiefly to torture himself. His attitude was meant to conveythat the joke had gone far enough, and that he would not stand much moreof it.For a time at least he was, fortunately, out of the piece. Perhaps hethought the influence of his attitude must presently take effect; thatBrenda, whom he so habitually adored with his eyes, would be intimidatedby his threat of being finally offended?The three other protagonists took no more notice of the sulky Ronnie, butthey could not at once recover any approach to sequence."I want to know why you've come up here," Banks persisted."That's not the point," Jervaise began in a tone that I thought was meantto be conciliatory."But it is--partly," Brenda put in."My dear girl, do let's have the thing clear," her brother returned, butshe diverted his apparent intention of making a plain statement by animpatient,--"Oh! it's all _clear_ enough.""But it isn't, by any means," Jervaise said."To us it is," Banks added, meaning, I presume, that he and Brenda had nodoubts as to their intentions."You're going to persist in the claim you made this morning?" Jervaiseasked.Banks smiled and shrugged his shoulders."Don't be silly, Frank," Brenda interpreted. "You must know that we can'tdo anything else.""It's foolish to say you _can't_," he returned irritably, "when soobviously you _can_.""Well, anyway, we're going to," Banks affirmed with a slightinconsequence."And do you purpose to stay on here?" Jervaise said sharply, as if he wereposing an insuperable objection."Not likely," Banks replied. "We're going to Canada, the whole lot of us.""Your father and mother, too?""Yes, if I can persuade 'em; and I can," Banks said."You haven't tried yet?""No, I haven't.""Don't they know anything about this? Anything, I mean, before lastnight's affair?""Practically nothing at all," Banks said. "Of course, nothing whateverabout last night.""And you honestly think..." began Jervaise."That'll be all right, won't it, Anne?" Banks replied.But Anne, still leaning back in the corner of the settle, refused toanswer.Jervaise turned and looked down at her. "If you all went...?" he said,giving his incomplete sentence the sound of a question."Oh! I should certainly go, too," she replied.Jervaise frowned moodily. I could see that he was caught in an awkwarddilemma, but I was not absolutely sure as to the form it took. Had Annemade conditions? Her remark seemed, I thought, to hint a particularstipulation. Had she tried to coerce him with the threat of accompanyingher brother to Canada unless the engagement to Brenda was openlysanctioned by the family?"But you must see how impossible it is," Jervaise said, still looking atAnne."_We_ don't think so," Brenda put in."You don't understand," her brother returned savagely."_You_ don't," Brenda replied.Jervaise snorted impatiently, but he had enough control of himself toavoid the snare of being drawn into a bickering match."It isn't as if the decision rested with me," he went on, looking down atthe hearth-rug, but still, I fancy, addressing himself almost exclusivelyto Anne. "I can't make my father and mother see things as you do. No onecould. Why can't you compromise?""Oh! _How_?" Brenda broke out with a fierce contempt."Agree to separate--for a time," Jervaise said. "Let Banks go to Canadaand start a farm or something, and afterwards you could join him withoutany open scandal.""Any mortal thing to save a scandal, of course," Brenda commentedscornfully."Would _you_ be prepared to do that?" Jervaise asked, turning to Banks.I thought Banks seemed a trifle irresolute, as though the bribe of finallypossessing Brenda was tempting enough to outweigh any other consideration.But he looked at her before replying, and her contemptuous shake of thehead was completely decisive. He could not question any determination ofhers."No, I wouldn't," he said."But look here, Brenda, why..." Jervaise began on a note of desperatereasonableness."Because I'm going out _with_ him," Brenda said. They might have chasedthat argument round for half an hour if Ronnie had not once moreinterposed.His dudgeon had been slowly giving place to a shocked surprise. It wasbeing borne in upon his reluctant mind that Brenda and Banks honestlyintended to get married. And here was Frank Jervaise, for some mistakenpurpose of his own, calmly admitting the possibility of the outrage,instead of scorning the bare idea of it with violence."I think you're making a ghastly mistake, Frank," he said with a composurethat was intended to be extremely ominous.Jervaise clutched at the interruption, probably to give himself a littlemore time. The women were proving so unamenable to his excellentreasoning. One simply contradicted him, and the other refused to speak."What's a mistake, Ronnie?" he asked."Listening to them at all," Turnbull said, with a preposterous attempt tobe dignified. He would not look at Brenda as he continued, but he wascertainly aware that she had turned towards him when he spoke, and theconsciousness that she was watching him steadily increased hisembarrassment. "It's perfectly absurd, I mean, to talk as if you and yourpeople would allow the thing to go on--under any circumstances--perfectrot! Why can't you say at once that it's got to stop--absolutely,and--Good Lord!--I don't care what any one thinks--if I were in your placeI'd jolly well sling Banks off the premises--I tell you I would--" hegot to his feet, his vehemence was increasing, as if he would shout downBrenda's silent disdain--"I'd confoundedly well kick him out of thecounty..." He looked almost equal to the task as he stood there roaringlike a young bull-calf; but although he could have given his rival a goodthree stone in weight there was, I fancy, a difference in the quality oftheir muscles that might have left the final advantage with Banks in arough-and-tumble engagement.But despite, or perhaps on account of his complete ineptitude, I had afeeling of sympathy for Turnbull. It must have been very exasperating forhim to stand there, roaring out his sincerest convictions and to bereceived by every one of us with a forbearing contempt.Even Brenda expressed something of pity for him."My dear Ronnie, don't be absolutely idiotic," she said, forbearingly, butrather as though she warned him that he had said quite enough.He breathed heavily, resentfully, but still declined to look at her. "Ofcourse if you'd sooner I went away altogether..." he remarked."I don't see that you can help us by staying," Brenda said."I mean for good," he explained tragically.I heard afterwards that he had been in love with Brenda since she was nineyears old, but I might have inferred the fact from his present attitude.He simply could not believe, as yet, that she would let him go--for good,as he said. No doubt she had tricked and plagued him so often in the pastthat the present situation seemed to him nothing more than the repetitionof a familiar experience.Brenda must have realised that, too; but, no doubt, she shrank fromwounding him mortally in public. The ten years of familiar intercoursebetween her and Ronnie were not to be obliterated in a day, not even bythe fury of her passion for Arthur Banks."I know," she said. "But you _are_ interrupting, Ronnie. Do go!""And leave you here?" He was suddenly encouraged again by her tone. Helooked down at her, now; pleading like a great puppy, beseeching her toput a stop to this very painful game."Surely, Ronnie, you must realise that I--mean it, this time," she said."Not that you're going to ... going to Canada," he begged."Yes. Yes. Definitely and absolutely finally yes," she said."With--him?""Yes.""But, _Brenda_!" The long-drawn appeal of her name showed that the fullbitterness of the truth was coming home to him at last."I'm sorry," she said, and the sound of it was in some way painfullyfinal."It isn't because..." he began, but she anticipated his well-known reasonsby saying,--"It's nothing to do with you or with anything you've done, nothingwhatever. I'm sorry, Ronnie, but it's fate--just fate. Do go, now. I'llsee you again before--before we go."And still he stood for an instant undecided; and I could see the strugglethat was going on in him, between the influence of Harrow and Oxford andthose of the honest, simple primitive man. He knew that the right,conventional thing for him to do was to be magnanimous; to admit that hewas the defeated lover, and to say something that would prove how splendidhe could be in the moment of disaster. The traditions of Harrow, Oxford,and the melodrama united to give him an indication of the proper conductof the situation, and against them was ranged nothing more than one feralimpulse to take Banks by the throat and settle his blasphemous assumptionof rivalry off-hand.But it was, I think, a third influence that decided the struggle for thattime. His glare of wrath at Banks had been followed by one last yearninglook at Brenda, and some sentimental realisation of his loss rose andchoked him, temporarily superseding the powers both of make-believe andinstinct. One lesson he had learnt at Harrow and Oxford so thoroughly thathe re-acted to it even in this supreme crisis of his life. He might giveexpression to brutal passion, but in no circumstances whatever must hebreak down and weep in public.He turned quickly and blundered out of the room with a stumbling eagernessto be alone that was extraordinarily pathetic."You'll admit, B., that it's cursedly hard lines on Ronnie after all theseyears," Frank said with what sounded like genuine emotion.She took that up at once. "I know it is," she said. "It's going to be hardlines on lots of people, but there's no way out of it. You may think it'ssilly tosh to talk about Fate; but it _is_ Fate."And then she looked at Banks with something in her expression that wassurely enough to compensate him for any pain or sacrifice he might have toendure for her."_We_ can't help it, can we, Arthur?" she said.He was too moved to answer. He set his lips tightly together and shook hishead, gazing at her with a look of adoration and confidence that wasalmost violent in its protestation of love.Jervaise turned round and leaned his forehead against the highmantelpiece. I looked out of the window. Anne remained hidden in thecorner of the settle. We all, no doubt, had the same feeling that thislove-affair was showing itself as something too splendid to be interferedwith. Whether or not it had the qualities that make for endurance, it hada present force that dwarfed every other emotion. Those two lovers ruledus by their perfect devotion to each other. I felt ashamed of my presencethere, as if I had intruded upon some fervent religious ceremony. Theywere both so sincere, so gallant, and so proud.It was Banks who re-started the conversation. The solitude we hadpermitted to the lovers was at once too little and too much for them. Whathad passed between them by an exchange of signals in the brief interval, Icould only guess; they certainly had not spoken, but Banks's new subjectsuggested that they had somehow agreed to divert the interest momentarilyfrom themselves."I've brought Mr. Melhuish back with me," he said. "He's going to stay thenight with us." He may have been addressing Brenda in answer to some lookof inquiry that had indicated my resolutely unconscious back.Since Turnbull had gone, I was more than ever the outsider and intruder,and I was all too keenly aware of that fact as I turned back towards theroom. My embarrassment was not relieved by the slightly perplexedastonishment the announcement had evoked in the faces of the two women."But I thought you were staying at the Hall," Brenda said, looking at mewith that air of suspicion to which I was rapidly growing accustomed."I was," I said; "but for reasons that your brother may be able toexplain, I'm staying there no longer."She looked at Jervaise, then, but he had no reply ready. I had put him ina difficult position. I had a chance to revenge myself at last."I don't understand, Frank," Brenda prompted him; and Anne began to cometo life for the first time since I had entered the room--there was a neweffect of mischief about her, as if she had partly guessed the cause of myexpulsion from the Hall."It's a long story," Jervaise prevaricated."But one that I think you ought to tell," I said, "in justice to me.""We found that Melhuish had been, most unwarrantably, interfering in--inthis affair of yours, B.," he grumbled; "and, in any case, it's nobusiness of his."Brenda's dark eyebrows lifted with that expression of surprisedquestioning to which she could give such unusual effect. I suppose itemphasised that queer contrast--unique in my experience--between hernaturally fair hair, and her black eyebrows and eyelashes. I have toemphasise the fact that the straw gold of her abundant vital hair was its_natural_ colour. She had often, I believe, threatened to dye it, in orderto avoid the charge of having already done so."What piffle!" she remarked. "How has Mr. Melhuish interfered? Why, thisis the first time I've seen him since last night at the dance. Besides,"she glanced at me with a half-whimsical touch of apology, "I hardly knowhim.""Oh! it's some romantic rot of his, I suppose," Jervaise returnedsullenly. "I never thought it was serious.""But," Anne interposed, "it sounds very serious...if Mr. Melhuish has hadto leave the Hall in the middle of his visit--and come to us." I inferredthat she was deliberately overlooking my presence in the room for somepurpose of her own. She certainly spoke as if I were not present."Partly a misunderstanding," Jervaise said. "No reason why he shouldn'tcome back with me now if he wants to.""You would in that case explain, of course, how the misunderstandingarose?" I put in."_I_ don't know what your game is," he returned allusively."I never had one," I said."Looked infernally suspicious," was his grudging answer.The two girls exchanged a look of understanding, but I had no notion whatthey intended by it. I had not learnt, then, how cleverly they played upto each other."Yes, but suspicious of what, Mr. Jervaise?" Anne said, taking up thecross-examination."Spying upon us," Jervaise growled."Upon you or me?" asked Brenda."Both," Jervaise said."But why?" asked Anne."Lord knows," Jervaise replied.I made no effort to interrupt them. The two girls were clearing mycharacter for me by the simple obvious method that I had not had the witto adopt for myself. I might have argued and protested for hours, and theonly result would have been to confirm Jervaise's suspicions. Confrontedby an innocent demand for explanation, he had not a leg to stand on.Brenda's eyebrows went up again, with that slightly bizarre, exotic airwhich was so arresting. She spoke to me this time."And do you mean to say that they were all so horrid to you that you hadto come away?" she asked."Precisely that," I said."But you don't tell us what Mr. Melhuish has _done!_" Anne persisted,continuing her cross-examination of Jervaise."Well, for one thing, he went out to meet your brother at three o'clockthis morning," he replied grudgingly."Didn't come out to meet me," Banks put in. "We did meet all right, but itwas the first time we'd ever seen each other."We all four looked at Jervaise, awaiting his next piece of evidence withthe expectant air of children watching a conjurer.He began to lose his temper. "I can't see that this has got anything to dowith what we're discussing..." he said, but I had no intention of lettinghim off too easily. He had saved me the trouble of making tediousexplanations, and my character had been cleared before Anne and Brenda,which two things were all that I really cared about in this connection;but I wanted, for other reasons, to make Jervaise appear foolish. So Iinterrupted him by saying,--"Hadn't you better tell them about Miss Tattersall?"He turned on me, quite savagely. "What the devil has this affair of oursgot to do with you, Melhuish?" he asked."Nothing whatever," I said. "You dragged me into it in the first instanceby bringing me up here last night, but since then I haven't interfered oneway or the other. What does affect me, however, is that you and yourfamily have--well--insulted me, and for that you do owe me, at least, anexplanation.""What made you come up here, now?" he asked with that glowering legal airof his; thrusting the question at me as if I must, now, be finallyconfuted."After you ran away from me in the avenue," I said promptly, "it seemedthat the only thing left for me to do was to walk to Hurley Junction; buta quarter of a mile from the Park gate I found your car drawn up by theside of the road. And as I had no sort of inclination to walk fourteenmiles on a broiling afternoon, I decided to wait by the car until some onecame to fetch it. And when presently Banks came, I tried my best topersuade him to take me to the station in it. He refused on the groundsthat he wanted to take the car back at once to the garage; but when Iexplained my difficulty to him, his hospitable mind prompted him to offerme temporary refuge at the Home Farm. He brought me back to introduce me,and we found you here. Simple, isn't it?"Jervaise scowled at the hearth-rug. "All been a cursed misunderstandingfrom first to last," he growled."But what was that about Grace Tattersall?" Brenda asked. "If you'daccused _her_ of spying, I could have understood it. She was trying topump me for all she was worth yesterday afternoon.""I've admitted that there must have been some misunderstanding," Jervaisesaid. "For goodness' sake, let's drop this question of Melhuish'sinterference and settle the more important one of what we're going to doabout--you.""I resent that word 'interference,'" I put in."Oh! resent it, then," Jervaise snarled."Really, I think Mr. Melhuish is perfectly justified," Brenda said. "Ifeel horribly ashamed of the way you've been treating him at home. Ishould never have thought that the mater...""Can't you understand that she's nearly off her head with worrying aboutyou?" Jervaise interrupted."No, I can't," Brenda returned. "If it had been Olive, I could. But Ishould have thought they would all have been jolly glad to see the last ofme. They've always given me that impression, anyhow.""Not in this way," her brother grumbled."What do you mean by that exactly?" Anne asked with a great seriousness.I think Jervaise was beginning to lose his nerve. He was balanced sodangerously between the anxiety to maintain the respectability of theJervaises and his passion, or whatever it was, for Anne. Such, at least,was my inference; although how he could possibly reconcile his twodevotions I could not imagine, unless his intentions with regard to Annewere frankly shameful. And Jervaise must, indeed, be an even grosser foolthan I supposed him to be if he could believe for one instant that Annewas the sort of woman who would stoop to a common intrigue with him. Forit could be nothing more than that. If they loved each other, they coulddo no less than follow the shining example of Brenda and Anne's brother. Icould see Anne doing that, and with a still more daring spirit than theother couple had so far displayed. I could not see her as Frank Jervaise'smistress. Moreover, I could not believe now, even after that morning'sscene in the wood, that she really cared for him. If she did, she musthave been an actress of genius, since, so far as I had been able toobserve, her attitude towards him during the last half-hour had mostnearly approached one of slightly amused contempt.Jervaise's evident perplexity was notably aggravated by Anne's question."Well, naturally, my father and mother don't want an open scandal," hesaid irritably."But why a scandal?" asked Anne. "If Arthur and Brenda were married andwent to Canada?""I don't say that _I_ think it would be a scandal," he said. "I'm onlytelling you the way that _they'd_ certainly see it. It might have beendifferent if your brother had never been in our service. You must seethat. _We_ know, of course, but other people don't, and we shall never beable to explain to them. People like the Turnbulls and the Atkinsons andall that lot will say that Brenda eloped with the chauffeur. It's no goodbeating about the bush--that's the plain fact we've got to face.""Then, hadn't we better face it?" Anne returned with a flash ofindignation. "Or do you think you can persuade Arthur to go back toCanada, alone?"Jervaise grunted uneasily."You know it's no earthly, Frank," Brenda said. "Why can't you be a sportand go back and tell them that they might as well give in at once?""Oh! my dear girl, you must know perfectly well that they'll _never_ givein," her brother replied."Mr. Jervaise might," Banks put in.Frank turned to him sharply. "What do you mean by that?" he asked."He'd have given in this morning, if it hadn't been for you," Banks said,staring with his most dogged expression at Jervaise."What makes you think so?" Jervaise retaliated."What he said, and the way he behaved," Banks asserted, the English yeomanstock in him still very apparent."You're mistaken," Jervaise snapped."Give me a chance to prove it, then," was Banks's counter."How?""I've got to take that car back. Give me a chance for another talk withMr. Jervaise; alone this time."I looked at Banks with a sudden feeling of anxiety. I was afraid that hemeant at last to use that "pull" he had hinted at on the hill; and I hadan intuitive shrinking from the idea of his doing that. This open defiancewas fine and upright. The other attitude suggested to my mind theconception of something cowardly, a little base and underhand. He looked,I admit, the picture of sturdy virtue as he stood there challenging hislate master to permit this test of old Jervaise's attitude, but the prizeat stake was so inestimably precious to Banks, that it must have alteredall his values. He would, I am sure, have committed murder for Brenda--anysort of murder.Frank Jervaise did not respond at once to the gage that had been offered.He appeared to be moodily weighing the probabilities before he decided hispolicy. And Brenda impatiently prompted him by saying,--"Well, I don't see what possible objection you can have to that.""Only want to save the pater any worry I can," Jervaise said. "He has beenmore cut up than any one over this business.""The pater has?" queried Brenda on a note of amazement. "I shouldn't haveexpected him to be half as bad as the mater and Olive.""Well, he is. He's worse--much worse," Jervaise asserted.I was listening to the others, but I was watching Banks, and I saw himsneer when that assertion was made. The expression seemed to have beenforced out of him against his will; just a quick jerk downwards of thecorners of his mouth that portrayed a supreme contempt for old Jervaise'sdistress. But that sneer revealed Banks's opinion to me better thananything he had said or done. I knew then that he was aware of somethingconcerning the master of the Hall that was probably unknown either toBrenda or Frank, something that Banks had loyally hidden even from hissister. He covered his sneer so quickly that I believe no one else noticedit."But, surely, it would be better for the pater to see Arthur and have donewith it," Brenda was saying."Oh! I dare say," Jervaise agreed with his usual air of grudging the leastconcession. "Are you ready to go now?" he asked, addressing Banks.Banks nodded. "I'll pick up the car on the way," he said."I'll come with you--as far as the car," Brenda said, and the pair of themwent out together.Jervaise stretched himself with a self-conscious air. "It will take himthe best part of an hour getting the car into the garage and all that," heremarked, looking at me.I could see, of course, that he wanted me to go; his hint had been,indeed, almost indecently pointed; and I had no wish to intrude myselfupon them, if Anne's desire coincided with his. I got to my feet and stoodlike an awkward dummy trying to frame some excuse for leaving the room. Icould think of nothing that was not absurdly obvious. I was on the pointof trying to save the last remnant of my dignity by walking out, when Annerelieved my embarrassment. I knew that she had been watching me, but I wasafraid to look at her. I cannot say why, exactly, but I felt that if Ilooked at her just then I should give myself away before Jervaise."I must go and see about Mr. Melhuish's room," she said.She was half-way to the door when Jervaise stopped her."I should rather like to speak to you for a minute first," he remarked,and scowled again at me."There's nothing more to be said until Arthur has seen Mr. Jervaise," Annereplied, as though any subject other than the affair Brenda, could notconceivably be of interest to her."It wasn't about them," Jervaise said awkwardly."What was it, then?" Anne asked. I dared to look at her, now, and her facewas perfectly serious as she added, "Was it about the milk, or eggs, oranything?"Without doubt there was a delicious strain of minx in her!Jervaise lost his temper. I believe that if I had offered to fight him,then, he would have welcomed the opportunity."Oh! you know what I want to say," he snorted."Then why not say it?" Anne replied.He turned savagely upon me. "Haven't you got the common sense..." hebegan, but Anne cut him short."Oh! we don't suspect _our_ guests of spying," she said.I was nearly sorry for Jervaise at that moment. He could not have lookedany more vindictive than he looked already, but he positively trembledwith anger. He could not endure to be thwarted. Nevertheless, he displayeda certain measure of self-control."Very well," he said as calmly as he could. "If you're going to take thattone...""Yes?" Anne prompted him. She showed no sign of being in any waydisconcerted."It will hardly help your brother," he concluded."I made a mistake in trying to help him this morning," she said. "I shan'tmake the same mistake twice in one day."He evidently knew what she meant, although I did not. His heavy eyebrowstwitched, and then, with a half-contemptuous shrug of his shoulders hestrode out of the room with an air of leaving us to the doom we so justlydeserved."The worst of it is that the second mistake doesn't cancel the first,"Anne remarked thoughtfully.XITHE STORYShe still stood by the great oak table, her hands resting lightly on itsdark polished surface. I could see the vague reflection of her fingersreaching up through the deep solidity of the oak to join hands with her.She produced, I thought, an impressive effect of fragility and power inher contrast with that massive table. The material of her flesh was sodelicate compared to the inert, formidable mass before her. She could nothave lifted or moved it by her own effort. And yet it seemed that she hadabsolute command over that ponderous obstacle, that in some way themobility of her spirit must give her control of it, that she might, if shewished, plunge those relatively fragile hands of hers deep into the lakeof that dark and adamant surface.She had not looked at me since Jervaise left the room, and when she spokeagain she gazed with a kind of concentrated abstraction out of the windowat the quiet glory of the calm August evening. Nevertheless her speechshowed that all her attention was being given to the human interests thathad just been absorbing us."Are you really a friend of ours?" she asked, "or did you just come herefaute de mieux?" The little French phrase came like an unexpected jewel,as if she had relapsed unconsciously into a more familiar language.I was strangely confused by the fact of our being alone together. I had anentirely unwarranted feeling that we were about to make up a quarrel. AndI wanted to do my utmost to produce the best possible impression upon her."I hope I may call myself your brother's friend," I began lamely. "All mysympathies are with him.""You don't know the Jervaises particularly well?" she inquired. For onemoment she glanced down at her poised hands, but almost instantly returnedto her rather absent-minded gazing through the open window."Except for Frank and his brother, I never met one of them until lastnight," I explained. "I was at school and Cambridge with Frank.""But they are your sort, your class," she said. "Don't you agree with themthat it's a dreadful thing for Arthur, their chauffeur--and he was in thestables once, years ago--to try to run away with their daughter?""All my sympathies are with Arthur," I repeated."Not because the Jervaises were so rude to you?" she asked."I liked him before that; when we met on the hill, very early thismorning," I said. "But, perhaps, he didn't tell you.""Yes, he told me," she said. "And was that the beginning of all thetrouble between you and the Jervaises?""In a way, it was," I agreed. "But it's an involved story and very silly.I admit that they had grounds for suspecting that I had interfered.""Mrs. Jervaise and Olive are always suspecting people," she volunteered."I've often wondered why?""Like that, by nature," I suggested."Perhaps," she said carelessly as if she did not care to pursue thatspeculation. "You know that my mother was governess to Olive and Frankbefore she married my father?" she continued, still with that same air ofdiscussing some remote, detached topic."I heard that she had been a governess. I didn't know that she had everbeen with the Jervaises," I said."She was there for over two years," pursued Anne. "She is French, youknow, though you'd probably never guess it, now, except for an occasionalword here and there. She left years before Brenda was born. Brenda is somuch younger than the others. There's eight years between her and Robert,the next one. Olive's the eldest, of course, and then Frank."I made some conventional acknowledgment for this information. I waswondering if she were merely talking to save the embarrassment of silence.We had drifted, apparently, a long way from any matter of personalinterest and I was hesitating as to whether I should not attempt a newopening, when she began again with the least little frown ofdetermination."I'm talking about them, because if you are to be Arthur's friend youought to know more or less how things are between us and the Jervaises,and I might just as well say right out at once that we don't like them;we've never liked them. Mother, more particularly. She has got somethingagainst them that she has never told us, but it isn't that." Her frown wasmore pronounced as she went on, "They aren't nice people, any of them,except Brenda, and she's so absolutely different from the rest of them,and doesn't like them either--in a way.""You don't even except Frank?" I mumbled. I could not resist theopportunity she had offered to ask that too pointed question; but I lookeddown at the floor as I spoke; I wanted her to understand that I was notcross-examining her."I knew you saw us," she returned in the same even tone that she had usedall through this conversation of ours. She had not once raised or loweredher voice. She might have been speaking a part, just to test her memory."Yes, I did," I said. "Quite by accident, of course. I had no idea that hehad come up here. I hadn't seen him since breakfast.""It was a mistake," she said simply.I looked up at her, hoping with no shadow of reason that I might haveplayed some part in her discovery that that caress in the wood had been amistake. But she had not changed colour nor moved her attitude, and hervoice was still free from any emotion as she said,--"We thought, Brenda and I thought, that we might trick him. It was a pieceof chicane. She and I were rather silly this morning. We excite eachother. In a sort of way she dared me. But I was sorry afterwards and sowas Brenda, although she thought it might be better as I'd gone so far tokeep it up until Arthur had got a promise or something out of Mr.Jervaise. I had meant to do that. I don't know why I didn't.""But do you think that Frank Jervaise realises that you were only playingwith him for your own ends, this morning?" I asked."Oh! yes," she said with perfect assurance. "As a matter of fact, he wasvery suspicious this morning. He's like his mother and sister insuspecting everybody.""Do you think he'll make trouble?" I said. "Now? Up at the Hall?""Yes, I do. He's vindictive," she replied. "That's one reason why I'm gladyou are with us, now. It might help--though I don't quite see how. Perhapsit's just the feeling of having some one else on our side. Because I'mafraid that there's going to be a lot of trouble when my father and mothercome home. With my father, more particularly. He'll be afraid of beingturned out. It will be very difficult to make him take up a new idea.He'll hate the thought of leaving here and starting all over again inCanada. He loves this place so.""And I suppose he likes, or at least respects, the Jervaises?" I said."Not much," she replied. "They've made it very difficult for us in manyways.""Deliberately?" I suggested."They don't care," she said, warming a little for the first time. "Theysimply don't think of any one but themselves. For instance, it mayn't seemmuch to you, but it's part of our agreement with Mr. Jervaise to providethe Hall with dairy when they're at home--at market prices, of course. Andthen they'll go to town for two or three months in the summer and take alot of the servants with them, and we're left to find a market for ourdairy as best we can, just when milk is most plentiful." She lifted herhands for a moment in a graceful French gesture as she added, "Often itmeans just giving milk away.""Does your father complain about that?" I asked.She turned and looked at me with a complete change of expression. Herabstraction had vanished, giving place to an air that confessed adeliberate caprice."To _us_," she said with a laugh that delightfully indulged her father'sweakness.I needed nothing more to illuminate the relations of the Banks family.With that single gesture she had portrayed her father's character, and herown and her mother's smiling consideration for him. Nevertheless I wasstill interested in his attitude towards the Hall--with Anne asinterpreter. I knew that I should get a version noticeably different fromthe one her brother had given me on the hill that morning."But you said that your father hadn't much _respect_ for the Jervaises?" Istipulated."Not for the Jervaises as individuals," she amended, "but he has for theFamily. And they aren't so much a family to him as an Idea, anInstitution, a sort of Religion. Nothing would break him of that, nothingthe Jervaises themselves ever could do. He'd be much more likely to losehis faith in God than in the Rights of the Hall. That's one of hissayings. He says they have rights, as if there was no getting over that.It's just like people used to believe in the divine right of kings."I do not know whether I was more fascinated by her theme or by herexposition of it. "Then, how is it that the rest of you...?" I began, butshe had not the patience to wait while I finished the question. She wassuddenly eager, vivid, astonishingly alive; a different woman from theAnne who had spoken as if in her sleep, while plunged in some immense,engrossing meditation."My mother," she broke in. "The Jervaises mean nothing to her, nothing ofthat sort. She wasn't brought up on it. It isn't in her blood. In a wayshe's as good as they are. Her grandfather was an emigre from theRevolution--not titled except just for the 'de', you know--they had anestate near Rouen ... but all this doesn't interest you.""It does, profoundly," I said.She looked at me with a spice of mischief in her eyes. "Why?" she asked.It was a tempting opening for a flirtation, but I could not flirt withher. When I had first heard the clear, soft tones of her voice at thewindow, I must have known that my meeting with her was a new and decisiveexperience. I had always idealised a certain type of woman, and perhapsfor that reason I had always held back from the possible disillusions ofan exploring intimacy. But my recognition of Anne had nothing in commonwith all my old deliberately romantic searchings for a theoreticalaffinity. If I had been asked at any time before two o'clock that morningto define my ideal, the definition would not have described Anne. Indeed,I could never have imagined her. She was altogether too individual, toopositive, too independently real, to fit the mawkish vapourings of a man'simaginary woman. There was something about her that conquered me. AlreadyI was blushingly ashamed of my jealous suspicion that she could sellherself by a marriage with Jervaise. In all her moods, she appeared to mewith an effect that I can only describe as "convincing."She was a perpetual revelation, and each new phase of her thrilled me withadmiration, and a sense of long-sought satisfaction. I could be content towatch and to listen to her. The revelations of her personality were to meas a continual and glorious adventure. To flirt with her would be aconfession on my part of a kind of superiority that I could never feel; asuggestion of the ridiculous assumption that I could afford to dally withand in certain circumstances flout her. I could sooner have dallied withand flouted a supreme work of art. Wherefore when she challenged me withher daring "Why?" I met her eyes with a look that if it in any wayrepresented what I was feeling, must have expressed a grave and sincerehumility."I can hardly tell you why," I said. "I can only assure you that I amprofoundly interested."She accepted that statement with a readiness that gave me another thrillof satisfaction. She understood my desire and gave way to it, instantlyfulfilling my present need of her."My great-grandfather went back to Paris after things had settled down,"she went on, as if there had been no break in her narrative; "just as acommon workman. He was about thirty-five, then, I believe; his first wifeand his two children had died of small-pox in Holland, and he didn't marryagain until he was sixty. He had only one child afterwards; that was mygrandmother. But I can't tell you the story properly. You must get mymother to do that. She makes such a lovely romance out of it. And it _is_rather romantic, too, isn't it? I like to feel that I've got that behindme rather than all the stodgy old ancestors the Jervaises have got.Wouldn't you?""Rather," I agreed warmly."If I didn't miss all the important points you'd think so," Anne repliedwith a little childish pucker of perplexity coming in her forehead. "Butstory-telling isn't a bit in my line. I wish it were. I can listen tomother for hours, and I can never make out quite what it is she does tomake her stories so interesting. Of course she generally tells them inFrench, which helps, but I'm no better in French than in English. Motherhas a way of saying 'Enfin' or 'En effet' that in itself is quitethrilling.""You don't know quite how well you do it yourself," I said.She shook her head. "Not like mother," she asserted. With that childishpucker still wrinkling her forehead she looked like a little girl offourteen. I could see her gazing up at her mother with some little haltingperplexed question. I felt as if she were giving me some almost miraculousconfidence, obliterating all the strangeness of new acquaintanceship bydisplaying the story of her girlhood."She puts mystery into it, too," she went on, still intent on thedifference between her own and her mother's methods. "And, I think, therereally is some mystery that she's never told us," she added as anafterthought. "After my grandfather died, her mother married again, awidower with one little girl, and when she grew up mother got her overhere as a sort of finishing governess to Olive Jervaise. She came a yearor two before Brenda was born. She was born in Italy. Did you know that? Ialways wonder whether that's why she's so absolutely different from allthe others.""She certainly is. I don't know whether that's enough to explain it," Icommented. "And did your mother's step-sister go abroad with them?""I believe so. She never came back here afterwards. She has been dead forages, now. But mother's always rather mysterious about her. That's how Ibegan, wasn't it? I know that she was very beautiful, and sometimes Ithink I can just remember her. I must have been about four when she lefthere, because I'm rather more than four years older than Brenda."The thought of Anne at four was not less fascinating to me than thepicture of her at fourteen. I was jealous of all her twenty-three years oflife. I wanted to have an intimate knowledge of all her past being; ofevery least change and development that she had suffered since babyhood.But I was to have no more confidences of that sort just then. The childdisappeared from her face and speech as quickly as it had come. Sheappeared to be dreaming, again, as she continued almost without a pause,--"But it isn't my mother I'm sorry for in this affair. She'll arrangeherself. I think she'll be glad, in a way. We all should if it weren't formy father. We're so ruled by the Jervaises here. And it's worse than that.Their--their prestige sort of hangs over you everywhere. It's like beingat the court of Louis Quatorze. The estate is theirs and they are theestate. Mother often says we are still feodal down here. It seems to mesometimes that we're little better than slaves."I smiled at the grotesqueness of the idea. It was impossible to conceiveAnne as a slave.She was still gazing out of the window with that appearance ofabstraction, but she was evidently aware of my smile, for she said,--"You think that's absurd, do you?""In connection with you," I replied. "I can't see you as any one's slave."She gave me her attention again. "No, I couldn't be," she threw at me witha hint of defiance; and before I had time to reply, continued, "I wasangry with Arthur for coming back. To go into service! I almost quarrelledwith mother over that. She was so weak about it. She hated his being sofar away. She didn't seem to mind anything as long as she could get himhome again. But Arthur's more like my father. He's got a strain ofJervaise-worship in him, somewhere.""A very strong strain, just now," I suggested.She laughed. "Yes, he's Brenda's slave; always will be," she said. "But Idon't count her as a Jervaise. She's an insurgee like me--against her ownfamily. She'd do anything to get away from them.""Well, she will now," I said, "and your brother, too."That seemed to annoy her. "It may sound easy enough to you," she said,"but it's going to be anything but easy. You can't possibly understand howdifficult it's going to be.""Can't you tell me?" I asked.She shrugged her shoulders as if she had suddenly become tired of myquestions, perhaps of myself, also."You're so outside it all," she said."I know I am," I admitted. "But--I don't want to remain outside.""I don't know why I've been telling you as much as I have," she returned."I can only plead my profound interest," I said."In Arthur? Or in us, generally?" she inquired and frowned as if sheforbade me to say that my chief interest might be in herself."In all of you and in the situation," I tried, hoping to please her. "Iwas prepared to dislike the Jervaises and all they stood for, before thistalk with you. Now...""But you're well off, aren't you?" she said with a faint air of contempt."_You_ can't be an insurge. You'd be playing against your own side.""If you think that, why did you give me so much confidence to begin with?"I retaliated."Oh! I'm always doing silly things," she said. "It was silly to play withthat foolish Jervaise man this morning. It was silly to offend him thisevening. I don't--_think_. I ought to be whipped." She had apparentlyforgotten her recent distrust of me, for she continued in the tone of onewho makes an ultimate confession. "As a matter of fact, I suppose I'mchiefly responsible for the whole thing. I egged them on. Arthur wouldhave gone on adoring Brenda as a kind of divinity for ever, if I hadn'tbrought them together. He's afraid to touch her, even now. I just didn'tthink. I never do till it's too late.""But you're not sorry--about them, are you?" I put in."I'm sorry for my father," she said. "Oh! I'm terribly sorry for him." Hereyes were extraordinarily tender and compassionate as she spoke. I feltthat if any lover of Anne's could ever inspire such devotion as showed inher face at that moment, he would indeed be blest."He's sixty," she went on in a low, brooding voice, "and he's--he'sso--rooted.""Is there no chance of their letting you stay on, if Arthur and Brendawent to Canada?" I asked.Her face was suddenly hard again as she replied. "I don't think there'sone chance in a million," she said. "The Jervaise prestige couldn't standsuch relations as us, living at their very doors. Besides, I know I'veupset that horrid Jervaise man. He'll be revengeful. He's so weak, andthat sort are always vindictive. He'll be mean and spiteful. Oh! no, it'sone of two things, either Arthur will have to go back to Canada withoutBrenda, or we'll all have to go together."Her tone and attitude convinced me. If I had been able to consider thecase logically and without prejudice, I should probably have scorned thispresentation of rigid alternatives as the invention of a romantic mind; Imight have recognised in it the familiar device of the dramatist. But Ihad so far surrendered myself to the charm of Anne's individuality that Iaccepted her statement without the least shadow of criticism. It was thesearch to find some mechanical means of influencing the Jervaises'decision that reminded me of Arthur Banks's hint of an advantage that hemight use in a last emergency."But your brother told me last night," I said, "that there wassome--'pull' or other he had, that might make a difference if it came todesperate measures.""He didn't tell you what it was?" she asked, and I knew at once that shewas, after all, in her brother's confidence."No, he gave me no idea," I replied."He couldn't ever use that," she said decidedly. "He told me about it thismorning, before he went up to the Hall, and I--""Dissuaded him?" I suggested, as she paused."No! He saw it, himself," she explained."It wasn't like Arthur--to think of such a thing, even--at ordinary times.But after his quarrel with Brenda on the hill--if you could call it aquarrel, when, so far as I can make out, Arthur never said a word thewhole time--after that, and Brenda being so eager to face them all out,this morning; he got a little beyond himself.""Does Brenda know about this--pull?" I asked."Of course not!" Anne replied indignantly. "How could we tell her that?""I haven't the least notion what it is, you see," I apologised."Oh! it's about old Mr. Jervaise," Anne explained without the least showof reluctance. "There's some woman or other he goes to see in town. Andonce or twice Arthur took him in the car. They forget we're human beingsat all, sometimes, you know. They think we're just servants and don'tnotice things; or if we do notice them, that we shouldn't be sodisrespectful as to say anything. I don't know what they think. Anyhow, helet Arthur drive him--twice, I believe it was--and the second time Arthurlooked at him when he came out of the house, and Mr. Jervaise must haveknown that Arthur guessed. Nothing was said, of course, but he didn't evertake Arthur again; but Arthur knows the woman's name and address. It wasin some flats, and the porter told him something, too."I realised that I had wasted my sympathy on old Jervaise. His air of acriminal awaiting arrest had been more truly indicative than I could haveimagined possible. He had been expecting blackmail; had probably beenwilling to pay almost any price to avoid the scandal. I wondered how farthe morning interview had relieved his mind?"That explains Mr. Jervaise's state of nerves this morning," I remarked."I could see that he was frightfully upset, but I thought it was aboutBrenda. I had an idea that he might be very devoted to her."Anne pushed that aside with a gesture, as quite unworthy of comment."But, surely, that really does give your brother some kind of advantage,"I went on thoughtlessly. I suppose that I was too intent on keeping Annein England to understand exactly what my speech implied.She looked at me with a superb scorn. "You don't mean to say," she said,"that you think we'd take advantage of a thing like that? Father--or anyof us?"I had almost the same sense of being unjustly in disgrace that I had hadduring the Hall luncheon party. I do not quite know what made me grasp atthe hint of an omission from her bravely delivered "any of us." I wasprobably snatching at any straw."Your mother would feel like that, too?" I dared in my extremity.Any ordinary person would have parried that question by a semblance ofindignation or by asking what I meant by it. Anne made no attempt todisguise the fact that the question had been justified. Her scorn gave wayto a look of perplexity; and when she spoke she was staring out of thewindow again, as if she sought the spirit of ultimate truth on some, tome, invisible horizon."She isn't practical," was Anne's excuse for her mother. "She's so--soromantic.""I'm afraid I was being unpractical and romantic, too," I apologised,rejoicing in my ability to make use of the precedent.Anne just perceptibly pursed her lips, and her eyes turned towards me withthe beginning of a smile."You little thought what a romance you were coming into when you acceptedthe invitation for that week-end--did you?" she asked."My goodness!" was all the comment I could find; but I put a world offeeling into it."And I very nearly refused," I went on, with the excitement of one whomakes a thrilling announcement.Anne humoured my eagerness with a tolerant smile. "_Did_ you?" she saidencouragingly."It was the merest chance that I accepted," I replied. "I was curiousabout the Jervaise family.""Satisfied?" Anne asked."Well, I've been given an opportunity of knowing them from the inside," Isaid."You'll be writing a play about us," Anne remarked carelessly.I was astonished to find that she knew I had written plays. "How did youknow that I did that sort of thing?" I asked."I've seen one of them," she said. "'_The Mulberry Bush_'; when mother andI were in London last winter. And Arthur said you were the same Mr.Melhuish. I suppose Frank Jervaise had told him.""People who go to the theatre don't generally notice the name of theauthor," I commented."I do," she said. "I'm interested in the theatre. I've read dozens ofplays, in French, mostly. I don't think the English comedies are nearly sowell done. Of course, the French have only one subject, but they are somuch more witty. Have you ever read _Les Hannetons_, for instance?""No. I've seen the English version on the stage," I said.I was ashamed of having written _The Mulberry Bush_, of having presumed towrite any comedy. I felt the justice of her implied criticism. Indeed, allmy efforts seemed to me, just then, as being worthless and insincere. Allmy life, even. There was something definite and keen about this girl oftwenty-three that suddenly illuminated my intellectual and moralflabbiness. She had already a definite attitude towards social questionsthat I had never bothered to investigate. She had shown herself to have afinal pride in the matter of blackmailing old Jervaise. And in half adozen words she had exposed the lack of real wit in my attempts atplaywriting. I was humbled before her superior intelligence. Her speechhad still a faint flavour of the uneducated, but her judgments werebrilliantly incisive; despite her inferentially limited experience, shehad a clearer sight of humanity than I had."You needn't look so depressed," she remarked."I was thinking what a pity it is that you should go to Canada," Ireturned."I want to go," she said. "I want to feel free and independent; not achattel of the Jervaises.""But--Canada!" I remonstrated."You see," she said, "I could never leave my father and mother. Whereverthey go, I must go, too. They've no one but me to look after them. Andthis does, at last, seem, in a way, a chance. Only, I can't trust myself.I'm too impulsive about things like this. Oh! do you think it might killmy father if he were torn up by the roots? Sometimes I think it might begood for him, and at others I'm horribly afraid.""Well, of course, I've never seen him..." I began."And in any case, you're prejudiced," she interrupted me. Her tone hadchanged again; it was suddenly light, almost coquettish, and she looked atme with a challenging lift of her eyebrows, as if, most astonishingly, shehad read my secret adoration of her and defied me to acknowledge it."In what way am I prejudiced?" I asked."Hush! here's Brenda coming back," she said.I regretted extremely that Brenda should have returned at that moment, butI was tremendously encouraged. Anne seemed in that one sentence to havesanctioned the understanding that I was in love with her. Her warning ofthe interruption seemed to carry some unspoken promise that I should begiven another opportunity.XIICONVERSIONAnne had not once moved from her original place by the table in the courseof that long conversation of ours, and she still stood there, herfinger-tips resting on the oak with a powerful effect of poise when Brendacame into the room.Brenda's actions were far more vivacious than her friend's. She came inwith an air of youthful exuberance, looked at me with a shade of inquiry,and then sat down opposite Anne."I came back over the hill and through the wood," she said, resting herelbows on the table and her chin on her hands. "It's a topping evening.Poor Arthur; I wish I could have gone with him. I offered to, but hedidn't want me to come. I'm not sure he didn't think they might kidnap meif I went too near." She turned to me with a bright smile as she added,"Could they keep me, Mr. Melhuish; shut me up or something?""I'm not quite sure about that," I said, "but they couldarrest--Arthur"--(I could not call him anything else, I found)--"if he ranaway with you. On a charge of abduction, you know.""They could make it pretty nasty for us all round, in fact," Brendaconcluded."I'm afraid they could," I agreed.She was looking extraordinarily pretty. The bizarre contrast between herdark eyelashes and her fair hair seemed to find some kind of echo in thecombination of health and fragility that she expressed in her movements.She appeared at once vital and delicate without being too highly-strung. Icould well understand how the bucolic strain in Arthur Banks was prostratewith admiration before such a rare and exciting beauty.By the side of Brenda, Anne looked physically robust. The developed linesof her figure emphasised Brenda's fragility. And yet Anne's eyes, herwhole pose, expressed a spirituality that Brenda lacked. Anne, with heramazing changes of mood, her rapid response to emotion, gave expression tosome spirit not less feminine than Brenda's, but infinitely deeper. Behindthe moving shadows and sunlight of her impulses there lay always somereminder of a constant orientation. She might trifle brilliantly with thesurface of life, but her soul was more steadfast than a star. Brenda mightlove passionately, but her love would be relatively personal, selfish.When Anne gave herself, she would love like a mother, with her wholebeing.I came out of my day-dream to find that she was speaking of me."Mr. Melhuish is half asleep," she was saying. "And I haven't got his roomready after all this time.""He didn't get much sleep last night," Brenda replied. "We none of us didfor that matter. We were wandering round the Park and just missing eachother like the people in _A Midsummer Night's Dream_.""Come and help me to get that room ready," Anne said. "Father and mothermay be home any minute. They ought to have been back before."Brenda was on her feet in a moment. She appeared glad to have some excusefor action. She was, no doubt, nervous and excited as to the probableresult of her lover's mission to the Hall, and wanted to be alone withAnne in order that they might speculate upon those probabilities whichBanks's return would presently transform into certainties.Anne turned to me before they left the room and indicated three shelves ofbooks half hidden behind the settle. "You might find something to readthere, unless you'd sooner have a nap," she said. "We shan't be havingsupper until eight."I preferred, however, to go out and make my own estimate of probabilitiesin the serenity of the August evening. My mind was too full to read. Iwanted to examine my own ideas just then, not those of some other man orwoman."I'm going for a walk," I said to Anne. "I want to think." And I looked ather with a greater boldness than I had dared hitherto. I claimed a furtherrecognition of that understanding she had, as I believed, so recentlyadmitted."To think out that play?" she returned lightly, but her expression did notaccord with her tone. She had paused at the door, and as she looked backat me, there was a suggestion of sadness in her face, of regret, or itmight even have been of remorse. She looked, I thought, as though she weresorry for me.She was gone before I could speak again.       *       *       *       *       *I found my way out by the back door through which Jervaise and I hadentered all those incalculable hours ago; and I looked up at the windowfrom which Anne's beautiful voice had hailed me out of the night. I wantedto think about her, to recall how she had looked and spoken--at thatwindow; in the course of her talk with Frank Jervaise; in the recent scenein the farm sitting-room when she had ambushed herself so persistentlybehind the ear of the settle; and, most of all, I desired to weigh everytone and expression I could remember in that last long conversation ofours; every least gesture or attention that might give me a hope of havingwon, in some degree, her regard or interest.But the perplexing initiative of my intelligence would not, for somereason, permit me to concentrate my thoughts on her at that moment. Mymind was bewilderingly full of Anne, but I could not think of her. When Ifell into the pose of gazing up at her window, the association suggestednot the memory I desired, but the picture of Frank Jervaise fumbling inthe darkness of the porch, and the excruciating anguish of Racquet's bark.From that I fell to wondering why I had not seen Racquet on this occasionof my second visit? I had not remembered him until then.I pulled myself up with an effort, and finding the surroundings of theyard so ineffectual as a stimulus, I wandered down the hill towards thewood. I suggested to myself that I might meet Banks returning from theHall, but my chief hope was that I might revive the romance of the night.The sun was setting clear and red, a different portent from the veiledthing that had finally hidden itself in a huddle of purple and gray cloudthe night before. I had seen it from my bedroom at the Hall as I dressedfor dinner and had mildly regretted the threat of possible bad weather. Ihad been a little bored by the anticipations I had formed of my week-end.The Jervaises, from what I had seen of them, promised, I thought, to beuncommonly dull. I had not seen Brenda before dinner.I roused myself again and made an effort to shift the depression that wassettling upon me, but the mood was not to be exorcised by any deliberateattempt to revive the glow of adventure that had warmed my earlierexcursions through the wood. The very stillness of the evening, the air ofpreparation for repose, the first faint suggestions of the passage fromsummer to autumn, all had some effect of pervading melancholy. I foundmyself speculating on the promise of change that my talk with Anne hadforeshadowed; of the uprooting of Farmer Banks, of the family'semigration, and the sadness of their farewells to this exquisitelypeaceful country of England.And then the thought that I had unconsciously feared and repressed since Ihad left the farm, broke through all these artificial abstractions andforced itself upon my attention. I struggled against it vainly for a fewseconds and then braced myself to meet the realisation of my own failure.For it was that shadow which had been stalking me since Anne had soobliquely criticised my comedy. And it seemed to me now that her laststrange expression as she left the room, that look of pity and regret, hadall too surely indicated the certainty that she--I faced it with a kind ofbitter despair--that she despised me. I was "well-off." I belonged to theJervaises' class. She had flung those charges at me contemptuously beforeshe had finally dismissed my one futile claim to distinction by classingme among the writers of that artificial English comedy which had not eventhe redeeming virtue of wit.Not once in that long conversation with her had she shown the sudden sparkof recognition that had so wonderfully lighted my parting with her in thenight. She had given me her confidence about her family affairs becauseshe counted me as a new ally, however ineffective, coming in unexpectedlyto fight against the Jervaises. She had acknowledged my worship of herbecause she was too clear-sighted and too honest to shirk my inevitabledeclaration. But I could not doubt that she rated me as unworthy of herserious attention. Her whole attitude proclaimed that her one instant ofreaching out towards me had been a mistake; one of the many impulses thatcontinually blossomed and died in her close intercourse with the spirit oflife.And I could not blame her for her contempt of me. I despised myself. I wasa man without a serious interest. I had escaped vice, but I had alwayslived among surface activities. My highest ambition after I left Cambridgehad been to have one of my foolish plays mounted in a West-End theatre. Ihad wanted to be talked about, to be a social success. And I had achievedthat ambition without much difficulty. I had had an independentincome--left me by my father who had died when I was in my second year atJesus--only three hundred a year, but enough for me to live upon withoutworking. I had gone often to the theatre in those days, and had scraped upan acquaintance with a middle-aged actor, whose chief occupation had beenthe stage-managing of new productions. With his help I had studiedstagecraft by attending rehearsals, the best possible school for awould-be dramatist. And my first accepted play had been written incollaboration with him. It had not been a great success, but I had gainedinvaluable experience, and, after that, success had come to me rapidly andeasily. I found that I had the knack of writing pleasant little artificialcomedies. None of them had run for longer than eight months, and I hadonly written five in all, but they had made me comparatively rich. At thattime my investments alone were bringing me in nearly two thousand a year.I was thirty-two, now, and it seemed to me looking back, that I had neverhad one worthy ambition in all those years. I had never even beenseriously in love. Most deplorable of all I had never looked forward to afuture that promised anything but repetitions of the same success.What had I to live for? I saw before me a life of idleness with no decentoccupation, no objects, but the amassing of more money, the seeking of awider circle of acquaintances, dinner-parties at more select houses, anincreasing reputation as a deviser of workmanlike, tolerably amusingplays. If I had had vices such as a promiscuous love of women, I mighthave found the anticipation of such a future more tolerable. There might,then, have been some incitement to new living, new experience. But I hadnothing.Yet until that evening in the wood I had hardly paused to consider whatwould presently become of me. The gradual increase in my scale of personalluxury had brought sufficient diversion and satisfaction. I had lived inthe pleasures of the moment, and had only rarely been conscious that thosepleasures were growing stale; that the crust of life upon which I had sodiligently crawled, was everywhere and always the same.Now it was as if that monotonous surface had amazingly split. My crawlingwas paralysed and changed to a terrified stillness. I had paused,horrified, at the mouth of a pit, and gazed down with a sick loathing atthe foundations of my life that had been so miraculously revealed. I did,indeed, stand suddenly stock still in the wood, and staring down thedarkening vista of the path, saw not the entranced twilight that wassinking the path in a pool of olive green shadows, but a kind of bioscopicpresentation of my own futile, monotonous existence.If Anne would have nothing to do with me, what, I asked myself, did theworld hold that could conceivably make my life worth living?I suppose most men and women have asked themselves the same question whenthey have been unexpectedly stirred by a great love. The sense ofunworthiness comes with a shock of surprise that seems violently to tearopen the comfortable cloak of self-satisfaction. I had been content withmy life, even a little vain of my achievement, until that lastconversation with Anne; now I loathed the thought of my own inefficiencyand all my prospects of success appeared unendurably tame. I was in thespiritual state of a religious convert, suddenly convinced of sin.And yet somehow in the depths of my consciousness there was a sensiblestir of resentment. The artificial being I had created during mythirty-two years of life had an existence of its own and protested againstthis threat of instant annihilation. I wanted to defend myself, and I waspetulantly irritable because I could find no defence.For the strange Fate that had planned this astounding revelation to me,had apparently led up to it by the subtlest arrangement of properties andevents. My disgrace at the Jervaises' had prepared me for this moment. Myresponses to humiliation had been, as it were, tested and strained by thatordeal. And at the same time I had been powerfully influenced to despisethe life of the Jervaises and all that they stood for, socially andethically. Then, almost without a pause, a new ideal of life had beenpresented to me; and the contrast had been so vivid as to awaken even mydulled powers of apprehension. The Jervaise type was more or less familiarto me; their acceptance of security as an established right, their lack ofanything like initiative, their general contentment with themselves, theirstandards of judgment and their surroundings, represented the attitudetowards life with which I was most familiar. It had been my own attitude.I had even dreamed of re-establishing the half-ruined home of the elderbranch of the Melhuish family in Derbyshire!And the contrast afforded by the lives and ambitions of Anne and herbrother had been so startling that I believe I must have been stirred byit to some kind of awakening even had I not fallen in love with Anne. Ihad been given so perfect an opportunity to enter into their feelings andviews by my strange and intimate association with their antagonism to allthat was typified by the rule of the Hall. By reason of my sympathy withthe Banks I had been able to realise the virtue of struggle and the evilsof the almost unlimited and quite indiscriminating power wielded by suchlandowners as old Jervaise. And in condemning him and his family, I mustcondemn myself also. We were all of us so smug and self-satisfied. We hadblindly believed that it was our birthright to reap where we had not sown.Nevertheless, though the truth was so plain to me in that moment, Iaccepted it grudgingly. The voice of my artificial self clamoured for ahearing. But these things were so, had always been so, it protested; whatcould I do to change them? And probably, if it had not been for the forceof the thrilling passion of reverence and admiration for Anne that hadsuddenly illuminated my whole being, the cultivated inertia of a life-timewould finally have conquered me. I should have thrust the problem awayfrom me and returned with a sensual satisfaction to the familiar way oflife I understood. I should have consoled myself with the reflection thatmine was not the temperament to face the ardours and disappointments ofstruggle.As it was, I longed so furiously to justify myself before Anne; to win, bysome heroic measure, her good opinion, that the incentive of my passionbore me triumphantly over the first re-actions of inertia and protest. Icould never return to my old complacency, although the mechanical,accustomed habit of my thought had for me, as yet, no suggestion otherthan some change in the ideal and manner of my writing. I thought vaguelyof attempting some didactic drama to illustrate the tragic contrastbetween gentle and simple that had been so glaringly illuminated for me byrecent experience. Yet, even as I played with that idea, I recognised itas a device of my old self to allay my discontent. I caught myselfspeculating on the promise of the play's success, on the hope of winningnew laurels as an earnest student of sociology. I thrust that temptationfrom me with a sneer at my own inherent hypocrisy."But what else can you do?" argued my old self and my only reply was tobluster. I bullied myself. I treated myself as a foolish child. The newspirit in me waved its feeble arms and shouted wildly of its splendidintentions. I could be immensely valiant in the presence of this singlelistener, but the thought of Anne humiliated and subdued even this brightnew spirit that had so amazingly taken possession of me. I wondered if Imight not submit my problem to her ask her what she would have me to do.Nevertheless, I knew that if I would win her esteem, I must act on my owninitiative.My conflict and realisation of new desires had had, however, one salutaryeffect. The depression of my earlier mood had fallen from me. When Ilooked round at the widening pool of darkness that flowed and deepenedabout the undergrowth, I found that it produced no longer any impressionof melancholy.I lifted my head and marched forward with the resolution of a conqueror.       *       *       *       *       *I was nearly clear of the wood when I saw Banks coming towards me. He wascarrying my suit-case, and behind him Racquet with a sprightly bearing ofthe tail that contradicted the droop of his head, followed with the bodyof a young rabbit."Loot from the Hall?" I asked when I came within speaking distance."Yes, he's been poaching again," Banks said, disregarding the applicationof my remark to the suit-case. "Well, he can, now, for all I care. He canhave every blessed rabbit and pheasant in the Park if he likes. I'm donewith 'em.""Things gone badly?" I asked, stretching out my hand for the suit-case."I'll carry it," he said, ignoring my question. "John had it ready packedwhen I got there."I remembered with a passing qualm that John had not been tipped, but putthat thought away as a matter of no pressing importance. "Had he?" Icommented. "Well, you've carried it half-way, now, I'll carry it the otherhalf.""I can do it," he said."You can but you won't," I replied. "Hand it over." I regarded thecarrying of that suit-case as a symbol of my new way of life. I hoped thatwhen we arrived at the Farm, Anne might see me carrying it, and realisethat even a writer of foolish comedies, who was well off and belonged tothe Jervaises' class, might aspire to be the equal of her brother."It's all right," Banks said, and his manner struck a curious mean betweenrespect and friendship.I laid hold of the suit-case and took it from him almost by force."You see, it isn't so much a suit-case as a parable," I explained.He looked at me, still reluctant, with an air of perplexity."A badge of my friendship for you and your family," I enlarged. "You andI, my boy, are pals, now. I take it you've left the Jervaises' service forgood. Imagine that this is Canada, not an infernal Park with a label onevery blade of grass warning you not to touch.""That's all right," he agreed. "But it's extraordinary how it hangs aboutyou. You know--the feeling that they've somehow got you, everywhere. Damnit, if I met the old man in the wood I don't believe I could help touchingmy hat to him.""Just habit," I suggested."A mighty strong one, though," he said."Wait till you're breathing the free air of Canada again," I replied."Ah! that's just it," he said. "I may have to wait."I made sounds of encouragement."Or go alone," he added."They've cut up rough, then?" I inquired."Young Frank has, anyway," he said with a brave assumption of breakingaway from servility."You didn't see the old man?""Never a sight of him.""And young Frank...?""Shoved it home for all he was worth. Threatened me with the law and whatnot. Said if I tried to take Her with me they'd have us stopped and takean action against me for abduction. I suppose it's all right that they cando that?""I'm afraid it is," I said; "until she comes of age.""Glad I'd taken the car back, anyhow," Banks muttered, and I guessed thatyoung Frank's vindictiveness had not been overestimated by Anne. No doubt,he would have been glad enough to complicate the issue by alleging Banks'stheft of that car."Well, what do you propose to do now?" I asked, after a short interval ofsilence."_I_ don't know," Banks said desperately, and then added, "It dependschiefly on Her.""She'll probably vote for an elopement," I suggested."And if they come after us and I'm bagged?""Don't let yourself get bagged. Escape them.""D'you think she'd agree to that? Sneaking off and hiding? Dodging aboutto get out of the country, somehow?" His tone left me uncertain whether hewere asking a question or spurning the idea in disgust."Well, what's the alternative?" I replied."We might wait," he said. "She'll be of age in thirteen months' time."I had no fear but that Banks would wait thirteen months, or thirteenyears, for Brenda. I was less certain about her. Just now she was headover ears in romance, and I believed that if she married him his sterlingqualities would hold her. But I mistrusted the possible effect upon her ofthirteen months' absence. The Jervaises would know very well how to usetheir advantage. They would take her away from the Hall and itsassociations, and plunge her into the distractions of a society that couldnot yet have lost its glamour for her. I could picture Brenda looking backwith wonder at the foolishness of the girl who had imagined herself to bein love with her father's chauffeur. And even an hour earlier, so recenthad been my true conversion, I should have questioned the advisability ofa hasty, secret marriage between these two temporarily infatuated people.Now I was hot with the evangelising passion of a young disciple. I wantedto deliver Brenda from the thrall of society at any price. It seemed to methat the greatest tragedy for her would be a marriage with some one in herown class--young Turnbull, for instance."I shouldn't wait," I said decidedly."Why not?" he asked with a touch of resentment, as if he had guessedsomething of my mistrust of Brenda."All very well, in a way, for you," I explained. "But think what an awfultime she'd have, with all of them trying to nag her into a marriage withyoung Turnbull, or somebody of that kind.""He isn't so bad as some of 'em," Banks said, evading the main issue."She'd never marry him though. She knows him too well, for one thing. He'sbeen scouring the county in a dog-cart all the morning--went to Hurley tomake inquiries before breakfast, and all over the place afterwards. John'sbeen telling me. He heard 'em talking when young Turnbull turned up attea-time. He's got guts all right, that fellow. I believe he'd play thegame fair enough if they tried to make her marry him. Besides, as I said,she'd never do it.""I don't suppose she would," I said, humouring him--it was no part of myplan to disturb his perfect faith in Brenda--"I only said that she'd havea rotten bad time during those thirteen months.""Well, we've got to leave that to her, haven't we?" Banks returned.I thought not, but I judged it more tactful to keep my opinion to myself."We shall be quite safe in doing that," I said as we turned into the backpremises of the Home Farm.Banks had forgotten about my suit-case, and I bore the burden of it,flauntingly, up the hill. Racquet followed us with an air of conscioushumility.And it was Racquet that Anne first addressed when she met us at the doorof the house."Whose rabbit is that?" she asked sternly.Racquet instantly dropped his catch and slowly approached Anne with a mienof exaggerated abasement."If you were an out and out socialist, I shouldn't mind," Anne continued,"but you shouldn't do these things if you're ashamed of them afterwards."Racquet continued to supplicate her with bowed head, but he gave onesurreptitious flick of his stumpy tail, that to me had the irresistiblesuggestion of a wink."Hypocrite!" Anne said, whereupon Racquet, correctly judging by her tonethat his forgiveness was assured, made one splendid leap at her, returnedwith an altogether too patent eagerness to his rabbit, picked it up, andtrotted away round the corner of the house."Isn't he a humbug?" Anne asked looking at me, and continued withoutwaiting for my confirmation of the epithet, "Why didn't you let Arthurcarry that?""He carried it half the way," I said. "He and I are the out and out kindof socialist."She did not smile. "Father and mother are home," she said, turning to herbrother. "I can see by your face the sort of thing they've been saying toyou at the Hall, so I suppose we'd better have the whole story on thecarpet over supper. Father's been asking already what Brenda's here for."XIIIFARMER BANKSAnne showed me up to my room as soon as we entered the house, but hermanner was that of the hostess to a strange guest. She was polite, formal,and, I thought, a trifle nervous. She left me hurriedly as soon as she hadopened the door of the bedroom, with some apology about having to "see tothe supper." (The smell of frying bacon had pervaded the staircase andpassages, and had helped me to realise that I was most uncommonly hungry.Except for a very light lunch I had eaten nothing since breakfast.)I got my first real feeling of the strangeness of the whole affair while Iwas unpacking my suit-case in that rather stiff, unfriendly spare-room.Until then the sequence of events had followed a hot succession, in thecurrent of which I had had no time to consider myself--my ordinary, dailyself--in relation to them. But the associations of this familiar positionand occupation, this adaptation of myself for a few hours to a strangehousehold, evoked the habitual sensations of a hundred similarexperiences. Twenty-four hours earlier I had been dressing for dinner atJervaise Hall, and despite my earnest affirmations that in the interval mywhole life and character had changed, I was very surely aware that I wasprecisely the same man I had always been--the man who washed, and changedhis tie, and brushed his hair in just this same manner every day; wholooked at himself in the glass with that same half-frowning, half-anxiousexpression, as if he were uncertain whether to resent or admire thefamiliar reflection. I was confronted by the image of the Graham Melhuishto whom I had become accustomed; the image of the rather well-groomed,rather successful young man that I had come to regard as the completepresentation of my individuality.But now I saw that that image in the glass could never have done thethings that I had done that day. I could not imagine that stereotypedcreature wanting to fight Frank Jervaise, running away from the Hall,taking the side of a chauffeur in an intrigue with his master's daughter,falling in love with a woman he had not known for twenty-four hours, and,culminating wonder, making extraordinary determinations to renounce thepleasures and comforts of life in order to ... I could not quite definewhat, but the substitute was something very strenuous and difficult andself-sacrificing.Nevertheless, some one had done all these things, and if it were not thatconventional, self-satisfied impersonation now staring back at me with alook of perplexed inquiry, where was I to find his outward likeness? Had Ilooked a different man when I was talking to Anne in the Farm parlour orwhen I had communed with myself in the wood? Or if the real GrahamMelhuish were something better and deeper than this fraudulent reflectionof him, how could he get out, get through, in some way or other achieve apermanent expression to replace this deceptive mask? Also, which of us wasdoing the thinking at that moment? Did we take it turn and turn about?Five minutes before the old, familiar Melhuish had undoubtedly beenunpacking his bag in his old familiar way, and wondering how he had cometo do all the queer things he unquestionably had been doing in the courseof this amazing weekend. Now, the new Melhuish was uppermost again,speculating about the validity of his soul--a subject that had certainlynever concerned the other fellow, hitherto.But it was the other fellow who was in the ascendant when I entered thefarm sitting-room in answer to the summons of a falsetto bell. I was shy.I felt like an intruder. I was afraid that Farmer Banks would treat me asa distinguished visitor, and that my efforts to attain the happy freedomof an equal might--in the eyes of Anne--appear condescending. The new selfI had so lately discovered was everybody's equal, but, just then, I wasout of touch with my new self.Nor did Farmer Banks's natural courtesy tend to put me at ease. He andArthur were alone in the room when I came down and it was Arthur who, withan evident self-consciousness, introduced me."Mr. Melhuish, father," was all he said, and I had no idea how much of thestory the old man had, as yet, been told.He made a kind of stiff bow and held out his hand. "Pleased to meet you,Mr. Melhuish," he said, and his manner struck a mean betweenrespectfulness and self-assertion. It was the kind of manner that he mighthave shown to a titled canvasser just before an election.He was a notably handsome man, tall and broad, with regular, impassivefeatures and blue eyes exactly the colour of Arthur's. Save that his backwas slightly rounded and that his closely-cropped hair was iron-gray, heshowed little mark of his sixty years. He seemed to me the very type of anEnglish yeoman, not markedly intelligent outside his own speciality, andconservative to the point of fanaticism. When I thought of trying topersuade him to forsake the usage of a lifetime and begin again in aforeign country under new conditions, my heart failed me. Upstairs, beforethe looking-glass, I had had my doubts of the possibility of ever oustingthe old Graham Melhuish; but those doubts appeared the most childishexaggerations of difficulty when compared with my doubts of persuading theman before me to alter his habits and his whole way of life. It seemed tome that the spirit of Farmer Banks must be encrusted beyond all hope ofrelease.I mumbled some politeness in answer to his unanswerable opening, andstarted the one possible topic of the weather. I was grossly ignorant ofthe general requirements of agriculture in that or any other connection,but any one knows a farmer wants fine weather for harvest.He took me up with a slightly exaggerated air of relief, and I dare say wecould have kept the subject going for ten minutes if it had beennecessary, but he had hardly begun his reply before the three women forwhom we had been waiting came into the room together.When I met Mr. Banks I felt, at once, that I might have inferred him withnice accuracy from what I already knew of him. Mrs. Banks was a surprise.I had pictured her as tall and slight, and inclined to be sombre. Anne'shints of the romantic side of her mother's temperament had, for somereason, suggested that image to me, and I was quite absurdly dumfoundedfor the moment when I saw this little, roundabout, dark-hairedFrenchwoman, as typically exotic as her husband was home-grown, voluble,brisk despite the handicap of her figure, and with nothing English abouther unless it were her accent.Fortunately she gave me no time to display the awkwardness of my surprise.She came straight at me, talking from the instant she entered the door."Discussing the crops already?" she said. "You must forgive us, Mr.Melhuish, for being so interested in the weather. When one's fortunedepends upon it, one naturally thinks of little else." She gave me hersmall plump hand with an engaging but, as it were, a breathless smile."And you must be starving," she continued rapidly. "Anne tells me you hadno tea at all anywhere, and that the people at the Hall have been treatingyou outrageously. So! will you sit there and Anne next to you, and thosetwo dreadful children who won't be separated, together on the other side."She was apparently intent only upon this business of getting us into ourplaces about the supper-table, and not until I had sat down did I realisethat her last sentence had been an announcement intended for her husband."What did you say, Nancy?" he asked with a puzzled air. He was stillstanding at the head of the table and staring with obvious embarrassmentat his wife.She waved her hands at him. "Sit down, Alfred," she commanded him, and inher pronunciation of his name I noticed for the first time the ripple of aFrench "r." Possibly her manner of speaking his name was a form ofendearment. "All in good time, you shall hear about it directly. Now, weare all very hungry and waiting for you." And without the least hint of apause she turned to me and glided over an apology for the nature of themeal. "We call it supper," she said, "and it is just a farm-house supper,but better in its way, don't you think, than a formal dinner?" She took meutterly into her confidence with her smile as she added, "Up at the Hallthey make so much ceremony, all about nothing. I am not surprised that youran away. But it was very original, all the same." She introduced me tothe first course without taking breath, "Eggs and bacon. So English. Isn'tthere a story of a man who starved to death on a walking-tour because hecould no longer endure to eat eggs and bacon? And when you have eatensomething you must tell us what you have all four been doing while myhusband and I were away. So far as I can understand you have turned theuniverse completely inside out. We came back believing that we return tothe Farm, but I think it has become a Fortress...."I ventured a glance at her husband. These flickering allusions of hers tothe tragedy that was threatening him, seemed to me indiscreet and rathertoo frivolous. But when I saw his look of puzzled wonder and admiration, Ibegan to appreciate the subtlety and wisdom of her method. Using me as aconvenient intermediary, she was breaking the news by what were, to him,almost inappreciable degrees. He took in her hints so slowly. He was notsure from moment to moment whether or not she was in earnest.Nevertheless, I recognised, I thought, at least one cause forperturbation. He had been perceptibly ruffled and uneasy at the referenceto an understanding between his son and Brenda. Probably the fear of thatcomplication had been in his mind for some time past.Mrs. Banks had slid away to the subject of local scenery."It is beautiful in its own way," she was saying, "but I feel with Arthurthat it has an air of being so--preserved. It is so proper, well-adjusted,I forget the English word ..."I suggested "trim" as a near translation of "propre" and "bien-ajuste.""Trim, yes," she agreed enthusiastically. "My daughter tells me you are anauthor. There are three lime trees in the pasture and the cattle haveeaten the branches as high as they can reach, so that now the trees havethe precise shape of a bell. Even the trees in the Park, you see, aretrim--not, it is true, like Versailles, where the poor things are made togrow according to plan--but all the county is one great landscape garden;all of England, nearly. Don't you agree with me? One feels that there mustalways be a game-keeper or a policeman just round the corner."She waited for my answer this time, and something in the eagerness of herexpression begged me to play up to her lead."I know exactly what you mean," I said, intensely aware of Anne'sproximity. "I was thinking something of the same kind, only this evening,when I went to meet Arthur in the wood. He and I were discussing it, too,as we came back. That sense of everything belonging to some one else, ofhaving no right, hardly the right to breathe without the Jervaises'permission."Her gesture finally confirmed the fact that perfect confidence wasestablished between us. I felt as if she had patted my shoulder. But shemay have been afraid that I might blunder into too obvious a statement, ifI were permitted to continue, for she abruptly changed her tactics bysaying to Brenda,--"So you ran away in the middle of the dance?""Well, we'd finished dancing, as a matter of fact," Brenda explained.Mr. Banks shifted uneasily in his chair. "Ran away, Miss Brenda?" heasked. "Did you say you'd run away?"She flattered him with a look that besought his approval. "I simplycouldn't stand it any longer," she said."But you'll be going back?" he returned, after a moment's pause.She shook her head, still regarding him attentively with an air of appealthat implied submission to his judgment.He had stopped eating, and now pushed his chair back a little from thetable as though he needed more space to deal with this tremendous problem."You'll be getting us into trouble, Miss Brenda," he warned her gravely."It wouldn't do for us to keep you here, if they're wanting you to go backhome.""Well, Alfred, we've as much right to her as they have," Mrs. Banks putin.The effect upon him of that simple speech was quite remarkable. He openedhis fine blue eyes and stared at his wife with a blank astonishment thatsomehow conveyed an impression of fear."Nancy! Nancy!" he expostulated in a tone that besought her to say nomore.She laughingly waved her hands at him, using the same gesture with whichshe had commanded him to sit down. "Oh! we've got to face it, Alfred," shesaid. "Arthur and Brenda believe they're in love with one another, andthat's all about it."Banks shook his head solemnly, but it seemed to me that his mannerexpressed relief rather than the added perturbation I had expected. "No,no, it won't do. That'd never do," he murmured. "I've been afraid of this,Miss Brenda," he continued; "but you must see for yourself that it'd neverdo--our position being what it is. Your father'd never hear of such athing; and you'd get us all into trouble with him if he thought we'd beenencouraging you."He drew in his chair and returned to his supper as if he regarded thematter as being now definitely settled. "I don't know what Mr. Melhuishwill be thinking of us," he added as an afterthought."Oh! Mr. Melhuish is on our side," Mrs. Banks returned gaily."Nancy! Nancy!" he reproved her. "This is too serious a matter to make ajoke about."I was watching Mrs. Banks, and saw the almost invisible lift of theeyebrows with which she passed on the conduct of the case to Anne."Mother isn't joking, dear," Anne said, accepting the signal without aninstant's hesitation. "Really serious things have been happening while youwere away."Her father frowned and shook his head. "This isn't the place to discussthem," he replied."Well, father, I'm afraid we must discuss them very soon," Anne returned;"because Mr. Jervaise might be coming up after supper.""Mr. Jervaise? Coming here?" Banks's tone of dismay showed that he wasbeginning, however slowly, to appreciate the true significance of thesituation."Well, we don't know that he is," Arthur put in. "I just thought it waspossible he and Mr. Frank might come up this evening.""They will certainly come. Have no doubt of that," Mrs. Banks remarked.The old man turned to his son as if seeking a refuge from the intrigues ofhis adored but incomprehensible womenfolk."What for?" he asked brusquely."To take her back to the Hall," Arthur said with the least possibleinclination of his head towards Brenda.Banks required a few seconds to ponder that, and his wife and daughterwaited in silence for his reply. I had a sense of them as watching over,and at once sheltering and directing him. Nevertheless, though I admiredtheir gentle deftness, I think that at that point of the discussion someforcible male element in me sided very strongly with old Banks. I wasaware of the pressure that was so insensibly surrounding him as of asubtly entangling web that seemed to offer no resistance, and yet wasslowly smothering him in a million intricate intangible folds. And, afterall, why should he be torn away from his root-holds, exiled to someforlorn unknown country where his very methods of farming would beinapplicable? Brenda and Arthur were young and capable. Let them wait, atleast until she came of age. Let her be tried by an ordeal of patientresistance. If she were worthy she could fight her family for thosethirteen months and win her own triumph without injuring poor Banks.And whether because I had communicated my thought to her by some change ofattitude or because she intuitively shared my sympathy for her father,Anne turned to me just before she spoke, with a quick little, impatientgesture as if beseeching me not to interfere. I submitted myself to herwish with a distinct feeling of pleasure, but made no application of myown joy in serving her to the case of her father.He was speaking again, now, with a solemn perplexity, as if he wereconfusedly challenging the soft opposition of his women's influence."But, of course, she must go back to the Hall," he said. "You wouldn'tlike to get us into trouble, would you, Miss Brenda? You see," he pushedhis chair back once more, in the throes of his effort to explain himself,"your father would turn me out, if there was any fuss."He was going on, but his wife, with a sudden magnificent violence,scattered the web she and her daughter had been weaving."And that might be the best thing that could happen to us, Alfred," shesaid. "Oh! I'm so sick and tired of these foolish Jervaises. They are likethe green fly on the rose trees. They stick there and do nothing but suckthe life out of us. You are a free man. You owe them nothing. Let us breakwith them and go out, all of us, to Canada with Arthur and Brenda. As forme, I would rejoice to go.""Nancy! Nancy!" he reproached her for the third time, with a humouringshake of his head. They were past the celebration of their silver wedding,but it was evident that he still saw in her the adorable foolishness ofone who would never be able to appreciate the final infallibility ofEnglish standards. He loved her, he would make immense personal sacrificesfor her, but in these matters she was still a child, a foreigner. Just somight he have reproached Anne at three years old for some infantilenaughtiness."It may come to that," Arthur interjected, gloomily."You're talking like a fool, Arthur," his father said. "What'd I do at myage--I'll be sixty-one next month--trapesing off to Canada?" He felt onsafer ground, more sure of his authority in addressing his son. He wasEnglish. He might be rebellious and need chastisement, but he would not beswayed by these whimsical notions that sometimes bewitched his mother andsister."But, father, we may _have_ to go," Anne softly reminded him."Have to? Have to?" he repeated, with a new note of irritability soundingin his voice. "He hasn't been doing anything foolish, has he? Nothing ascan't be got over?"It was his wife who replied to that. "We've had our time, Alfred," shesaid. "We have to think of them now. We must not be selfish. They areyoung and deeply in love, as you and I were once. We cannot separate thembecause we are too lazy to move. And sixty? Yes, it is true that you aresixty, but you are strong and your heart is still young. It is not as ifyou were an old man."Arthur and Brenda looked acutely self-conscious. Brenda blushed and seemedinclined to giggle. Arthur's face was set in the stern lines of one whohears his own banns called in church.Banks leaned back in his chair and stared apprehensively at his wife."D'ye mean it, Nancy...?" he asked, and something in his delivery of thephrase suggested that he had come down to a familiar test of decision. Icould only infer that whenever she had confessed to "meaning it" in thepast, her request had never so far been denied. I guessed, also, thatuntil now she had never been outrageous in her demands."What else can be done, dear?" she replied gently. "There is no choiceotherwise, except for them to separate."He looked at the culprits with an expression of bewilderment. Why shouldtheir little love affair be regarded as being of such tragic consequence,he seemed to ask. What did they mean to him and his wife and daughter? Whyshould they be considered worthy of what he could only picture as asupreme, and almost intolerable sacrifice? These young people were alwayshaving love affairs.He thrust his inquiry bluntly at Brenda. "Are you in earnest, then, MissBrenda?" he asked. "D'you tell me that you want to marry him--that you'reset on it?""I mean to marry him whatever happens," Brenda replied in a low voice. Shewas still abashed by this public discussion of her secrets. And it wasprobably with some idea of diverting him from this intimate probing of herdesires that she continued more boldly. "We would go off together, withoutyour consent, you know, if we thought it would do any good. But itwouldn't, would it? They'd probably be more spiteful still, if we didthat. Even if they could keep it dark, they'd never let you stay on here.But do you really think it would be so awful for us all to go to Canadatogether? It's a wrench, of course, but I expect it would be frightfullyjolly when we got there. Arthur says it is."He turned from her with the least hint of contempt to look at his son."You've lost _your_ place a'ready, I suppose?" he said, trying to steadyhimself by some familiar contact, an effort that would have been absurd ifit had not been so pathetic.Arthur nodded, as stolid as an owl.His father continued to search him with the same half-bewildered stare."What are you going to do, then?" he asked."She and I are going back, whatever happens." Arthur said."And suppose they won't let her go?""They'll have to.""Have to!" Banks recited, raising his voice at the repetition of thisfoolish phrase. "And how in the world are you going to make 'em?""The Jervaises aren't everybody," Arthur growled."You'll find they're a sight too strong for the like of us to go against,"Banks affirmed threateningly.Arthur looked stubborn and shook his head. "They aren't what you thinkthey are, father," he began, and then, seeing the incredulity on the oldman's face, he went on in a slightly raised voice, "Well, I know theyaren't. I've been up there twice to-day. I saw Mr. Jervaise this morning;went to the front door and asked for him, and when I saw him I put it tohim straight that I meant to--that we were going to get married.""You did," murmured Banks in an undertone of grieved dismay."I did, father," Arthur proceeded; "and if it hadn't been for young Mr.Frank, we'd have come to some sort of understanding. Mr. Jervaise didn'tactually say 'No,' as it was.""And you went up again this evening?" Banks prompted him."Yes; I only saw Mr. Frank, then," Arthur replied, "and he was in such apad, there was no talking to him. Anne can tell you why."Banks did not speak but he turned his eyes gravely to his daughter.Anne lifted her head with the movement of one who decides to plunge and bedone with it. "He'd been making love to me in the morning," she said; "andI--played with him for Arthur's sake. I thought it might help, andafterwards I showed him that I'd been letting him make a fool of himselffor nothing, that's all."The old man made no audible comment, but his head drooped a little forwardand his body seemed to shrink a little within the sturdy solidity of hisoak armchair. Anne, also, had betrayed him. Perhaps, he looked forward andsaw the Home Farm without Anne--she could not stay after that--andrealised that the verdict of his destiny was finally pronounced.I turned my eyes away from him, and I think the others, too, feigned somepreoccupation that left him a little space of solitude. We none of usspoke, and I knew by the sound of the quick intake of her breath that Mrs.Banks was on the verge of weeping.I looked up, almost furtively, when I heard the crash of footsteps on thegravel outside, and I found that the other three with the same instinctivemovement of suspense were turning towards Mrs. Banks.She dabbed at her eyes with her handkerchief and nodded to Anne, a nodthat said plainly enough, "It's them--the Jervaises."And then we were all startled by the sound of the rude and unnecessaryviolence of their knock at the front door. No doubt, Frank was still "in apad."Yet no one moved until the old man at the head of the table looked up witha deep sigh, and said,--"They'd better come in and be done with it, Nancy."His glance was slowly travelling round the room as if he were biddingthose familiar things a reluctant farewell. All his life had been lived inthat house.XIVMRS. BANKSThe insulting attack upon the front door was made again with even greaterviolence while we still waited, united, as I believe, in one sympatheticresolve to shield the head of the house from any unnecessary distress. Healone was called upon to make sacrifice; it was our single duty andprivilege to encircle and protect him. And if my own feelings wererepresentative, we fairly bristled with resentment when this vulgar demandfor admittance was repeated. These domineering, comfortable,respectability-loving Jervaises were the offenders; the sole cause of ourpresent anxiety. We had a bitter grievance against them and they cameswaggering and bullying, as if the threat to their silly prestige were theimportant thing."You'd better go, dear," Mrs. Banks said with a nod to Anne. The littlewoman's eyes were bright with the eagerness for battle, but she continuedto talk automatically on absurdly immaterial subjects to relieve thestrain of even those few seconds of waiting."Our maid is out, you see, Mr. Melhuish," she explained quickly, andturning to Brenda, continued without a pause, "So Anne has even had tolend you a dress. You're about of a height, but you're so much slighter.Still, with very little alteration, her things would fit you very well. Ifwe should be obliged ..." She broke off abruptly as Anne returned,followed by Mr. Jervaise and the glowering, vindictive figure of his son.Anne's manner of entrance alone would have been sufficient to demonstrateher attitude to the intruders, but she elected to make it still moreunmistakable by her announcement of them."The Jervaises, mother," she said, with a supercilious lift of her head.She might have been saying that the men had called for the rent.Little Mrs. Banks looked every inch an aristocrat as she received them.The gesture of her plump little white hands as she indicated chairs wasalmost regal in its authority.Old Jervaise, obviously nervous, accepted the invitation, but Frank, afterclosing the door, stood leaning with his back against it. The positiongave him command of the whole room, and at the same time conveyed ageneral effect of threat. His attitude said, "Now we've got you, and noneof you shall leave the room until you've paid in full for yourimpertinence." I had guessed from his knock that he had finally put hisweakness for Anne away from him. He was clever enough to realise just howand why she had fooled him. His single object, now, was revenge.Banks brooded, rather neglected and overlooked in a corner by the window.He appeared to have accepted his doom as assured, and being plunged intothe final gulf of despair, he had, now, no heart even to be apologetic.The solid earth of his native country was slipping away from him; nothingelse mattered.There was one brief, tense interval of silence before old Jervaise beganto speak. We all waited for him to state the case; Frank because he meantto reserve himself for the dramatic moment; we others because we preferredto throw the onus of statement upon him. (I do believe that throughoutthat interview it is fair to speak of "we others," of the whole six of us,almost as of a single mind with a single intention. We played ourindividual parts in our own manners, but we were subject to a single willwhich was, I firmly believe, the will of Mrs. Banks. Even her husbandfollowed her lead, if he did it with reluctance, while the rest of usobeyed her with delight.)Old Jervaise fumbled his opening. He looked pale and tired, as if he wouldbe glad to be out of it."We have called," he began, striving for an effect of magisterial gravity;"we have come here, Mrs. Banks, to fetch my daughter. I understand thatyou've been away from home--you and your husband--and you're probably notaware of what has taken--has been going on in your absence.""Oh! yes, we know," Mrs. Banks put in disconcertingly. She was sittingerect and contemptuous in her chair at the foot of the table. For onemoment something in her pose reminded me of Queen Victoria."Indeed? You have heard; since your return?" faltered old Jervaise. "But Icannot suppose for one moment that either you or your husband approveof--of your son's gross misbehaviour." He got out the accusation with aneffort; he had to justify himself before his son. But the slight stoop ofhis shoulders, and his hesitating glances at Mrs. Banks were propitiatory,almost apologetic. It seemed to me that he pleaded with her to realisethat he could say and do no less than what he was saying and doing; tounderstand and to spare him."But that is new to me," Mrs. Banks replied. "I have heard nothing of anygross misbehaviour."She was so clearly mistress of the situation that I might have been sorryfor old Jervaise, if it had not been for the presence of that scowlingfool by the door."I--I'm afraid I can describe your son's conduct as--as nothing less thangross misbehaviour," the old man stammered, "having consideration to hisemployment. But, perhaps, you have not been properly informed of the--ofthe offence.""Is it an offence to love unwisely, Mr. Jervaise?" Mrs. Banks shot at himwith a sudden ferocity.He blustered feebly. "You _must_ see how impossible it is for your son todream of marrying my daughter," he said. The blood had mounted to hisface; and he looked as if he longed to get up and walk out. I wonderedvaguely whether Frank had had that eventuality in mind when he blockadedthe door with his own gloomy person."Tchah!" ejaculated Mrs. Banks with supreme contempt. "Do not talk thatnonsense to me, but listen, now, to what I have to say. I will makeeverything quite plain to you. We have decided that Arthur and Brendashall be married; but we condescend to that amiable weakness of yourswhich always demands that there shall be no scandal. It must surely beyour motto at the Hall to avoid scandal--at any cost. So we are agreed tomake a concession. The marriage we insist upon; but we are willing, all ofus, to emigrate. We will take ourselves away, so that no one can point tothe calamity of a marriage between a Banks and a Jervaise. It will, Ithink, break my husband's heart, but we see that there is nothing else tobe done."Old Jervaise's expression was certainly one of relief. He would, I amsure, have agreed to that compromise if he had been alone; he might evenhave agreed, as it was, if he had been given the chance. But Frankrealised his father's weakness not less surely than we did, and althoughthis was probably not the precise moment he would have chosen, heinstantly took the case into his own hands."Oh! no, Mrs. Banks, certainly not," he said. "In the first place we didnot come here to bargain with you, and in the second it must be perfectlyplain to you that the scandal remains none the less because you have allgone away. We have come to fetch my sister home, that's the only thingthat concerns you.""And if she will not go with you?" asked Mrs. Banks."She must," Frank returned."And still, if she will not go?""Then we shall bring an action against you for abducting her."Mrs. Banks smiled gently and pursed her mouth "To avoid a scandal?" sheasked."If you persist in your absurd demands, there will be a scandal in anycase," Frank replied curtly."I suppose my wishes don't count at all?" Brenda put in."Obviously they don't," Frank said."But, look here, father," Brenda continued, turning to old Jervaise;"_why_ do you want me to come back? We've never got on, I and the rest ofyou. _Why_ can't you let me go and be done with it?"Jervaise fidgeted uneasily and looked up with a touch of appeal at hisson. He had begun to mumble some opening when Frank interposed."Because we won't," he said, "and that's the end of it. There's nothingmore to be said. I've told you precisely how the case stands. Either youcome back with us without a fuss, or we shall begin an action at once."I know now that Frank Jervaise was merely bluffing, and that they couldhave had no case, since Brenda was over eighteen, and was not beingdetained against her will. But none of us, probably not even old Jervaisehimself, knew enough of the law to question the validity of the threat.Little Mrs. Banks, however, was not depending on her legal knowledge todefeat her enemies. What woman would? She had been exchanging glances withher husband during the brief interval in which she had entrusted a minorplea to her junior, and I suppose she, now, considered herself free toproduce her trump card. Banks had turned his back on the room--perhaps thefirst time he had ever so slighted his landlord and owner--and was leaninghis forehead against the glass of the window. His attitude was that of aman who had no further interest in such trivialities as this bickering andscheming. Perhaps he was dimly struggling to visualise what life in Canadamight mean for him?His wife's eyes were still shining with the zest of her present encounter.She was too engrossed by that to consider just then the far heavier taskshe would presently have to undertake. She shrugged her shoulders and madea gesture with her hands that implied the throwing of all furtherresponsibility upon her antagonists. "If you will have it," she seemed tosay, "you must take the consequences." And old Jervaise, at all events,foresaw what was coming, and at that eleventh hour made one last effort toavert it."You know, Frank..." he began, but Mrs. Banks interrupted him."It is useless, Mr. Jervaise," she said. "Mr. Frank has been making loveto my daughter and she has shown him plainly how she despises him. Afterthat he will not listen to you. He seeks his revenge. It is the manner ofyour family to make love in that way.""Impertinence will not make things any easier for you, Mrs. Banks," Frankinterpolated."Impertinence? From me to you?" the little woman replied magnificently."Be quiet, boy, you do not know what you are saying. My husband and I havesaved your poor little family from disgrace for twenty years, and I wouldsay nothing now, if it were not that you have compelled me."She threw one glance of contempt at old Jervaise, who was leaning forwardwith his hand over his mouth, as if he were in pain, and then continued,--"But it is as well that you should know the truth, and after all, thesecret remains in good keeping. And you understand that it is apropos tothat case you are threatening. It might be as well for you to know beforeyou bring that case against us.""Well," urged Frank sardonically. He was, I think, the one person in theroom who was not tense with expectation. Nothing but physical fear couldpenetrate that hide of his."Well, Mr. Frank," she did not deign to imitate him, but she took up hisword as if it were a challenge. "Well, it is as well for you to know thatBrenda is not your mother's daughter." She turned as she spoke to Brendaherself, with a protective gesture of her little hand. "I know it will notgrieve you, dear, to hear that," she continued. "It is not as if you wereso attached to them all at the Hall...""But who, then...?" Brenda began, evidently too startled by thisastonishing news to realise its true significance."She was my step-sister, Claire Severac, dear," Mrs. Banks explained. "Shewas Olive's governess. Oh! poor Claire, how she suffered! It was, perhaps,a good thing after all that she died so soon after you were born. Herheart was broken. She was so innocent; she could not realise that she wasno more than a casual mistress for your father. And then Mrs. Jervaise,whom you have believed to be your mother, was very unkind to my poorClaire. Yet it seemed best just then, in her trouble, that she should goaway to Italy, and that it should be pretended that you were Mrs.Jervaise's true daughter. I arranged that. I have blamed myself since, butI did not understand at the time that Mrs. Jervaise consented solely thatshe might keep you in sight of your father as a reminder of his sin. Shewas spiteful, and at that time she had the influence. She threatened aseparation if she was not allowed to have her own way. So! the secret waskept and there were so few who remember my poor Claire that it is onlyAlfred and I who know how like her you are, my dear. She had not, it istrue, your beautiful fair hair that is so striking with your dark eyes.But your temperament, yes. She, too, was full of spirit, vivacious,gay--until afterwards."She paused with a deep sigh, and I think we all sighed with her inconcert. She had held us with her narrative. She had, as a matter of fact,told us little enough and that rather allusively, but I felt that I knewthe whole history of the unhappy Claire Severac. Anne had not overratedher mother's powers in this direction. And my sigh had in it an element ofrelief. Some strain had been mercifully relaxed.The sound of Frank's harsh voice came as a gross intrusion on our silence."What evidence have you got of all this?" he asked, but the ring ofcertainty had gone from his tone.Mrs. Banks pointed with a superb gesture at his father.The old man was leaning forward in his chair with his face in his hands.There was no spirit in him. Probably he was thinking less of the presentcompany than of Claire Severac.Frank Jervaise showed his true quality on that occasion. He looked down athis father with scowling contempt, stared for a moment as if he wouldfinally wring the old man's soul with some expression of filial scorn, andthen flung himself out of the room, banging the door behind him as aproclamation that he finally washed his hands of the whole affair.Old Jervaise looked up when the door banged and rose rather feebly to hisfeet. For a moment he looked at Arthur, as though he were prepared, now,to meet even that more recent impeachment of his virtue which he hadfeared earlier in the day. But Arthur's face gave no sign of anyvindictive intention, and the old man silently followed his son, creepingout with the air of a man who submissively shoulders the burden of hisdisgrace.I had been sorry for him that morning, but I was still sorrier for himthen. Banks was suffering righteously and might find relief in thatknowledge, but this man was reaping the just penalties of his own acts.XVREMEMBRANCEI do not believe that any of them saw me leave the room.As soon as old Jervaise had gone, all of them had turned with an instinctof protection towards the head of the family. He, alone, had beensacrificed. Within an hour his whole life had been changed, and I began todoubt, as Anne had doubted, whether so old a tree would beartransplanting. Whatever tenderness and care could do, would be done forhim, but the threat of uprooting had come so suddenly. In any case, Icould not help those gentle foresters whose work it would be to conductthe critical operation; and I walked out of the room without offering anyperfunctory excuse for leaving them.I made my way into the garden by the side door through which I had firstentered the Home Farm; and after one indeterminate moment, came to a haltat the gate on the slope of the hill. I did not want to go too far fromthe house. For the time being I was no more to the Banks than aninconvenient visitor, but I hoped that presently some of them--I put itthat way to myself--would miss me, and that Arthur or Anne would come andtell me what had been arranged in my absence. I should have been glad totalk over the affair with Arthur, but I hoped that it would not be Arthurwho would come to find me.For a time my thoughts flickered capriciously over the astonishing eventsof my adventurous week-end. I was pleasantly replete with experience. Inall my life I had never before entered thus completely into any of thegreat movements of life. I recalled my first thrills of anticipationamidst the glowing, excited youth of the resting dancers at the Hall. Wehad been impatient for further expression. The dragging departure of theSturtons had been an unbearable check upon the exuberance of our desires.In my thought of the scene I could see the unspent spirit of our vitalitystreaming up in a fierce fount of energy.And with me, at least, that fount, unexpectedly penned by the first hintsof disaster, had still played furiously in my mind as I had walked withFrank Jervaise through the wood. My intoxicated imagination had createdits own setting. I had gone, exalted, to meet my wonderful fate. Throughsome strange scene of my own making I had strayed to the very feet ofenduring romance.But after that exciting prelude, when the moon had set and slow dawn, likea lifting curtain, had been drawn to reveal the landscape of a worldoutside the little chamber of my own being, I had been cast from myheights of exaltation into a gloomy pit of disgrace. Fate, with afastidious particularity, had hauled me back to the things of everyday. Iwas not to be allowed to dream too long. I was wanted to play my part inthis sudden tragedy of experience.My thought went off at a tangent when I reached that point of myreflection. I had found myself involved in the Banks's drama, but whathope had I of ever seeing them again after the next day? What, moreover,was the great thing I was called upon to do? I had decided only an hour ortwo before that my old way of life had become impossible for me, butequally impossible was any way of life that did not include the presenceof Anne.I looked at my watch, and found that it was after ten o'clock, but howlong I had been standing at the gate, I had no idea; whether an hour orten minutes. I had been dreaming again, lost in imaginative delights;until the reminder of this new urgency had brought me back to a realitythat demanded from me an energy of participation and of initiative.I wished that Anne would come--and by way of helping her should she,indeed, have come out to look for me, I strolled back to the Farm, andthen round to the front of the house.The windows of the sitting-room had been closed but the blinds were notdrawn. The lamp had been lit and splayed weak fans of yellow light on tothe gravel, and the flower-beds of the grass plot. The path of each beamwas picked out from the diffused radiance of the moonlight, by the dancingfigures of the moths that gathered and fluttered across the prisms ofthese enchanted rays. But I did not approach the windows. In the stillnessof the night I could hear Anne's clear musical voice. She was still therein the sitting-room, still soothing and persuading her father. Her actualwords were indistinguishable, but the modulations of her tone seemed toconvey the sense of her speech, as a melody may convey the ideas of formand colour.I returned to my vigil at the gate and to thoughts of Anne--to romanticthoughts of worship and service; of becoming worthy of her regard; ofimmense faithfulness to her image when confronted with the mostprovocative temptations; to thoughts of self-sacrifice and bravado, ofhumility and boasting; of some transcending glorification of myself thatshould make me worthy of her love.I was arrested in the midst of my ecstatic sentimentalism by the sight ofthe Hall, the lights of which were distantly visible through the trees.The path by the wood was not the direct line from the Hall to the Farm;the sanctities of the Park were not violated by any public right of way.The sight of the place pulled me up, because I was suddenly pierced by thereflection that perhaps old Jervaise had thus postured to win the esteemof his daughter's governess. He, it is true, had had dignity and prestigeon his side, but surely he must have condescended to win her. Had he, too,dreamed dreams of sacrifice at the height of his passion? Had healternately grovelled and strutted to attract the admiration of his lady?I found the reflection markedly distasteful. I was sorry again, now, forthe old man. He had suffered heavy penalties for his lapse. I rememberedMrs. Banks's hint that his wife had adopted Brenda in the first place inorder that he might have before him a constant reminder of his disgrace. Icould believe that. It was just such a piece of chicane as I should expectfrom that timid hawk, Mrs. Jervaise. But while I pitied the man, I couldnot look upon his furtive gratifications of passion with anything butdistaste.No; if my love for Anne was to be worthy of so wonderful an object, I mustnot stupefy myself with these vapours of romance. The ideal held somethingfiner than this, something that I could not define, but that conveyed thenotion, however indeterminately, of equality. I thought of my fancy thatwe had "recognised" each other the night before. Surely that fancycontained the germ of the true understanding, of the conceptions ofaffinity and remembrance.No tie of our present earth life could be weighed against that idea of aspirit love, enduring through the ages; a love transcending and immortal,repeating itself in ever ascending stages of rapture. The flesh was but apassing instrument of temporal expression, a gross medium through whichthe spirit could speak only in poor, inarticulate phrases of itsmagnificent recognition of an eternal bond. ... Oh! I was soon high in theair again, riding my new Pegasus through the loftiest altitudes of lonelyexaltation. I was a conqueror while I had the world to myself. But when atlast I heard the rustle of a woman's dress on the path behind me, I wasnothing more than a shy, self-conscious product of the twentieth century,all too painfully aware of his physical shortcomings.       *       *       *       *       *She came and stood beside me at the gate, without speaking; and my mindwas so full of her, so intoxicated with the splendour of my imaginings,that I thought she must surely share my newfound certainty that we had metonce more after an age of separation. I waited, trembling, for her tobegin. I knew that any word of mine would inevitably precipitate thebathos of a civilised conversation. I was incapable of expressing my ownthought, but I hoped that she, with her magic voice, might accomplish amiracle that was beyond my feeble powers. Indeed, I could imaginativelyframe for her, speech that I could not, myself, deliver. I knew what Iwanted her to say--or to imply. For it was hardly necessary for her to sayanything. I was ready, wholly sympathetic and receptive. If she would butgive me the least sign that she understood, I could respond, though I wasso unable to give any sign myself.I came down from my clouds with a feeling of bitter disappointment, asense of waking from perfect dreams to the realisation of a hard, inimicalworld, when she said in a formal voice."It's after eleven. My mother and father have gone to bed.""Is he--is he in any way reconciled?" I asked, and I think I tried toconvey something of resentment by my tone. I still believed that she mustguess."In a way," she said, and sighed rather wearily."It must have been very hard for him to make up his mind so quickly--tosuch a change," I agreed politely."It was easier than I expected," she said. "He was so practical. Just atfirst, of course, while Mr. Jervaise was there, he seemed broken. I didn'tknow what we should do. I was almost afraid that he would refuse to come.But afterwards he--well, he squared his shoulders. He is magnificent. He'sas solid as a rock. He didn't once reproach us. He seemed to have made uphis mind; only one thing frightened him...""What was that?" I asked, as she paused."That we haven't any capital to speak of," she said. "Even after we havesold the furniture here, we shan't have more than five or six hundredpounds so far as we can make out. And he says it isn't enough. He saysthat he and mother are too old to start again from small beginnings.And--oh! a heap of practical things. He is so slow in some ways that itstartled us all to find out how shrewd he was about this. It was his ownsubject, you see.""There needn't be any difficulty about capital," I said eagerly. I hadhardly had patience for her to finish her speech. From her first mentionof that word "capital" I had seen my chance to claim a right in theBanks's fortunes."I don't see..." she began, and then checked herself and continuedstiffly, "My father would never accept help of any kind.""Arthur might--from a friend," I said."He thinks we've got enough--to begin with," she replied. "They've beenarguing about it. Arthur's young and certain. Father isn't either, andhe's afraid of going to a strange country--and failing.""But in that case Arthur must give way," I said.Anne was silent for a moment and then said in a horribly formal voice. "AmI to understand, Mr. Melhuish, that you are proposing to lend Arthur thismoney?""On any terms he likes," I agreed warmly."Why?"I could not mistake her intention. I knew that she expected me to say thatit was for her sake. I was no less certain that if I did say that shewould snub me. Her whole tone and manner since she had come out to thegate had challenged me."Here we are alone in the moonlight," her attitude had said. "You've beentrying to hint some kind of admiration for me ever since we met. Now, letus get that over and finished with, so that we can discuss this businessof my father's.""Because I like him," I said. "I haven't known him long, of course; only afew hours altogether; but..." I stopped because I was afraid she wouldthink that the continuation of the argument might be meant to apply to herrather than to Arthur; and I had no intention of pleading by innuendo.When I did speak, I meant to speak directly, and there was but one thing Ihad to say. If that failed, I was ready to admit that I had been sufferingunder a delusion."Well?" she prompted me."That's all," I said."Weren't you going to say that it wasn't how long you'd known a personthat mattered?""It certainly didn't matter in Arthur's case," I said. "I liked him fromthe first moment I saw him. It's true that we had been talking for sometime before there was light enough for me to see him.""You like him so much that you'd be willing to lend him all the money hewanted, without security?" she asked."Yes, all the money I have," I said."Without any--any sort of condition?""I should make one condition," I replied."Which is?""That he'd let me come and stay with him, and Brenda, and all of you--onthe farm.""And, of course, we should all have to be very nice to you, and treat youas our benefactor--our proprietor, almost," she suggested cruelly.I was hurt, and for a moment I was inclined to behave much as youngTurnbull had behaved that afternoon, to turn away and sulk, and show thatI had been grievously misunderstood. I overcame that impulse, however. "Ishouldn't expect you to curtsey!" I said.She turned to me with one of her instant changes of mood."Why don't you tell me the truth?" she asked passionately."The truth _you_ mean hasn't anything whatever to do with what we'retalking about now," I said."Oh! but it has. It must have," she protested. "Aren't you trying to buymy good-will all the time? All this is so heroic and theatrical. Aren'tyou being the splendid benefactor of one of your own plays--beingfrightfully tactful and oh! _gentlemanly_? It wouldn't be the right thing,of course, to--to put any sort of pressure on me; but you could put us allunder every sort of obligation to you, and afterwards--when you came tostay with us--you'd be very forbearing and sad, no doubt, and be verysweet to my mother--she likes you already--but every one would know justwhy; and you'd all expect me--to--to do the right thing, too."If I had not been truly in love with her I should have been permanentlyoffended by that speech. It stung me. What she implied was woundingly trueof that old self of mine which had so recently come under my observationand censure. I could see that; and yet if any one but Anne had accused meI should have gone off in high dudgeon. The hint of red in my hair wouldnot permit me to accept insult with meekness. And while I was stillseeking some way to avoid giving expression to my old self whose influencewas painfully strong just then, she spoke again."Now you're offended," she said.I avoided a direct answer by saying, "What you accused me of thinking andplanning might have been true of me yesterday; it isn't true, now.""Have you changed so much since yesterday?" she asked, as if she expectedme to confess, now, quite in the familiar manner. She had given me anopportunity for the proper continuation. I refused it."I have only one claim on you," I said boldly."Well?" she replied impatiently."You recognised me last night."It was very like her not to fence over that. She had a dozen possibleequivocations, but she suddenly met me with no attempt at disguise."I _thought_ I did," she said. "Just for a minute.""And now? You know...?"She leaned her elbows on the gate and stared out over the moonlitmysteries of the Park."You're not a bit what I expected," she said.I misunderstood her. "But you can't..." I began."To look at," she interrupted me.I felt a thrill of hope. "But neither are you," I said."Oh!" she commented softly."I've had romantic visions, too," I went on; "of what she would look likewhen I did meet her. But when I saw you, I remembered, and all thevisions--oh! scattered; vanished into thin air.""If you hadn't been so successful..." she murmured."I'm sorry for that," I agreed. "But I'm going to make amends. I realisedit all this afternoon in the wood when I went to meet Arthur. I'm going tobegin all over again, now. I'm coming to Canada--to work." The wholesolution of my problem was suddenly clear, although I had not guessed ituntil that moment. "I'm going to buy a farm for all of us," I went onquickly, "and all the money that's over, I shall give away. The hospitalsare always willing to accept money without asking why you give it. They'renot suspicious, _they_ don't consider themselves under any obligation.""How much should you have to give away?" she asked."Thirty or forty thousand pounds," I said. "It depends on how much thefarm costs.""Hadn't you better keep a little, in case the farm fails?" she put in."It won't fail," I said. "How could it?""And you'd do all that just because you've--remembered me?""There was another influence," I admitted."What was that?" she asked, with the sound of new interest in her voice."All this affair with the Jervaises," I said. "It has made me hate thepossession of money and the power money gives. That farm of ours is goingto be a communal farm. Our workers shall have an interest in the profits.No one is to be the proprietor. We'll all be one family--no scraping forfavours, or fears of dismissal; we'll all be equal and free."She did not answer that, at once; and I had an unpleasant feeling that shewas testing my quality by some criterion of her own, weighing thegenuineness of my emotion."Did you feel like this about things this afternoon?" she asked, afterwhat seemed to me an immense interval.I was determined to tell her nothing less than the truth. "No," Iconfessed, "much of it was a result of what you said to me. I--I had anillumination. You made me see what a poor thing my life had been; howconventional, artificial, worthless, it was. What you said about my playswas so true. I had never realised it before--I hadn't bothered to thinkabout it.""I don't remember saying anything about your plays," she interrupted me."Oh! you did," I assured her; "very little; nothing directly; but I knewwhat you felt, and when I came to think it over, I agreed with you.""I've only seen _one_," she remarked."They're all the same," I assured her, becoming fervent in my humility."But why go to Canada?" she asked. "Why not try to write better plays?""Because I saw my whole life plainly, in the wood this afternoon," was myreply. "I did not know what to do then. I couldn't see any answer to myproblem. But when you were speaking to me a minute ago, I realised thewhole thing clearly. I understood what I wanted to do."It's a form of conversion," I concluded resolutely."I'm sure you mean it all--now," she commented, as if she were speaking toherself."It isn't a question of _meaning_ anything," I replied. "The experiencesof this week-end have put the whole social question in a new light for me.I could never go back, now, to the old life. My conscience would always bereproaching me, if I did.""But if you're rich, and feel like that, oughn't you to shoulder yourresponsibilities?" she asked."Do something? Wouldn't it be rather like running away to give your moneyto the hospitals and go to Canada to work on a farm?""That's my present impulse," I said. "And I mean to follow it. I don'tknow that I shall want to stay in Canada for the rest of my life. I maysee further developments after I've been there for a few years. But...""Go on," she urged me."But I want to--to stay near you--all of you. I can't tell you how Iadmire your father and mother and Arthur and--all of you. And you see, Iadmit that this conversion of mine has been very sudden. I--I want tolearn.""Do you always follow your impulses like this?" she put in."I've never had one worth following before," I said."What about wanting to fight Frank Jervaise?" she asked. "And running awayfrom the Hall? And suddenly taking Arthur's side in the row? and all thosethings? Didn't you follow your impulses, then?"And yet, it had never before occurred to me that I was impulsive. I hadimagined myself to be self-controlled, rather business-like, practical. Iwas frankly astonished at this new light on my character."I suppose I did, in a way," I admitted doubtfully."To say nothing of..." she began, and stopped with a little, ratherembarrassed laugh."Of what?" I urged her."How many times before have you imagined yourself to be head over ears inlove?" she asked.I was repaid in that moment for all the self-denials and fastidiousshrinkings of my youth."Never once!" I acclaimed triumphantly. "It's the one common experiencethat has passed me by. I've often wondered why I could never fall in love.I've admired any number of women. I've tried to fall in love with them.And I have never been able to, try as I would. I could deceive myselfabout other things, but never about that. Now, I know why."I waited for her encouragement, but as she did not speak I went on withmore hesitation. "You'll think me a romantic fool, I suppose, if I tellyou why?""Oh! I know, I know," she said. "You've told me already in so many words.You mean that you've been waiting for me; that you _had_ to wait for me.You've been very frank. You deserve some return. Shall I tell you just howI feel? I will. I don't mind telling you the truth, too. I did rememberyou last night. But not since; not even now. But I like you--I like youvery much--as you are this evening. More than I've ever liked any manbefore. And if you went away, I should remember you; and want you to comeback. But you must give me time. Lots of time. Don't make love to me anymore; not yet; not till I've really remembered. I think I shall--in alittle while--when you've gone away. You're so near me, now. And so _new_.You don't belong to my life, yet."She paused and then went on in another tone. "But I believe you're rightabout Canada. I'll explain it all to the others. We'll make some kind ofarrangement about it. I expect it will have to be _your_ farm, nominally,for a time--until we all know you better. I can feel that you do--that youhave taken a tremendous fancy to all of us. I felt it just now, aftersupper. I was watching you and--oh! well, I knew what you were feelingabout my father and mother; and it seemed to be just what I should haveliked you to feel. But I don't think I would give _all_ my money to thehospitals, if I were you. Not without thinking it over a bit, first. Waituntil we get to Canada and see--how we get on.""You don't trust my impulses," I said.She laughed. "Wait till to-morrow anyway," she replied.And as she spoke I heard far away, across the Park, the sound of thestable-clock at the Hall, striking twelve. The artificial sound of it wasmellowed and altered by distance; as different from that theatrical firststriking I had noticed in the exciting atmosphere of the crowd, as was mypresent state of mind from that in which I had expectantly waited thecoming of romance...."To-morrow begins now," I said."And I have to be up before six," she added, in the formal voice she knewso well how to assume.I felt as though she had by that one return to civility cancelled all thatshe said, and as we turned back to the house, I began to wonder whetherthe promise of my probation was as assured as I had, a minute earlier, soconfidently believed.We were nearly at the little porch that would for ever be associated in mymind with the fumbling figure of Frank Jervaise, when she said,"One moment. I'll get you something," and left me standing in almostprecisely the same spot from which I had gazed up at her window the nightbefore.She returned almost immediately, but it was not until we were inside thehouse and she had lighted my candle that she gave me the "something,"pressing it into my hand with a sudden delicious, girlish embarrassment.She was gone before I recognised that the precious thing she had given mewas a sprig of Rosemary.POSTSCRIPTTHE TRUE STORYIt was by the merest accident that we gathered that delightful piece ofinformation--on our first trip to England, not quite three years after wewere married.I did not know that "_The Mulberry Bush_" had been revived for a few weeksas a stop-gap, until we saw the boards outside the theatre. Anne insistedthat we should go in, and the arbiters of coincidence ordained that Ishould take seats in the stalls immediately behind one of thosewell-informed society women who know the truth about everything.We were somewhat amused by her omniscience during the first interval, butit was not until the second that she came to the priceless report of ourown two selves.I was not listening to her when she began, but Anne's sudden grasp of myarm and the inclination of her head, awoke me to the fact that the gossipjust in front of us must, for some reason or other, be instantly attendedto.There was a good deal of chatter going on in the auditorium and I missedan occasional sentence here and there in addition to the opening, butthere could be no doubt as to the application of the reminiscence I heard."Got himself into a scrape and had to leave the country," was the firstthing that reached me. "As a matter of fact I had the whole story fromsome one who was actually staying in the house at the time." She droppedher voice as she added something confidentially of which I only caught thesound of the name Jervaise. Anne was squeezing my arm violently."Yes, his father's house," the gossip continued in answer to a questionfrom her companion. "A young man of great promise. He took silk last year,and is safe for a place in the Cabinet sooner or later.""Our Frank," Anne whispered.I nodded and waited eagerly, although I had not, then, realised my ownconnection with the story."Oh! yes, that other affair was four years ago--nothing to do with thedear Jervaises, except for the unfortunate fact that they wereentertaining him at the time. He ran away with a farmer's daughter; elopedwith her in the middle of a dance the Jervaises were giving. Never seenher before that evening, I believe. The father was one of the Jervaises'tenants.... A superior kind of young woman in some ways, I've heard; and afriend of the youngest Jervaise girl ... you wouldn't remember her ... shewent with her friend to Australia or somewhere ... some quixotic idea ofprotecting her, I believe ... and married out there. The farmer's name wasBaggs. The whole family were a trifle queer, and emigrated afterwards ...yes, it was a pity about Melhuish, in a way. He was considered quite apromising young dramatist. This thing of his was a distinct success. Veryamusing. But naturally, no one would receive him after he'd married thisBaggs girl. Besides which ..."But at that point the orchestra began, the woman dropped her voice again,and the only other fragment I heard was, "... after the disgraceful sceneat the dance ... quite impossible...."I looked at Anne and was surprised to find that she was white withindignation."I must tell them," she whispered passionately."Oh! no, please," I whispered back. "They wouldn't believe you. It wouldonly add another shocking detail to the next exposition of the scandal.""Detestable people," she said, in a voice that must have been heard by ourgossip, although she evidently did not realise the application of thedescription to herself and her friend."Let's be thankful," I whispered to Anne, "that I'm no longer writing thissort of piffle to amuse them. If it hadn't been for you..."The two women had left the theatre before the end of the third act, butlong before that Anne had seen the humour of this true story of ourelopement.THE ENDThe following pages contain advertisements of a few of the Macmillan bookson kindred subjects.       *       *       *       *       *MAY SINCLAIR'S NEW NOVELMary Olivier: A LifeBY MAY SINCLAIR,Author of "The Tree of Heaven," etc.Cloth, 12mo.No novel of the war period made a more profound impression than did MissSinclair's "The Tree of Heaven." The announcement of a new book by thisdistinguished author is therefore most welcome. "Mary Olivier" is a storyin Miss Sinclair's best manner. Once again she has chosen a theme of vitalinterest and has treated it with the superb literary skill which has puther among the really great of contemporary novelists.A woman's life, her thoughts, sensations and emotions directly presented,without artificial narrative or analysis, without autobiography.The main interest lies in Mary Olivier's search for Reality, her relationswith her mother, father and three brothers, and her final passage from thebondage of infancy, the conflicts of childhood and adolescence, thedisenchantments (and other drawbacks) of maturity, to the freedom, peaceand happiness of middle-age.The period covered is from 1865 when Mary is two years old to 1910 whenshe is forty-seven.       *       *       *       *       *EDEN PHILLPOTTS' NEW NOVELStorm in a TeacupBY EDEN PHILLPOTTSAuthor of "The Spinners," "Old Delabole," "Brunel's Towers," etc._Cloth, 12mo._This carries on Mr. Phillpotts' series of novels dealing with the humanside of the different industries. Here the art of paper making furnishesthe background. The theme is somewhat humorous in nature. A young wifepicks a quarrel with her husband because he is commonplace, and elopeswith a man of high intellectual ability. Finding him, however, extremelyprosaic and a bore, she is glad in the end to return to her first love.The elopement, it might be explained, was purely a nominal one, carriedout on a high moral basis with the most tender respect for the lady'sreputation and character. This fact leads to a number of unusual andfrequently amusing situations.       *       *       *       *       *From Father to SonBY MARY S. WATTSAuthor of "Nathan Burke," "The Rise of Jennie Gushing," "The BoardmanFamily," etc._Cloth, 12 mo._The hero of Mrs. Watts' new story is a young man belonging to a verywealthy family, who has had every sort of luxury and advantage and who,upon entering his father's office after leaving college, finds that thehuge fortune founded by his grandfather was mainly made by profiteering onthe grandfather's part during the Civil War. The question is what is thisyoung man of the present day to do? He is high-minded and sensitive andthe problem is a difficult one. What, too, is his own father to do--also aman of sterling character, though of a sterner type. The theme which growsout of this situation is one of singular interest and power and involves amoving crowd of characters.Among these is the hero's sister, who marries a German attache at theembassy in Washington; and another sister, who marries a young man of thesame social set--and things happen. There is a drunken scalawag of arelative--who might be worse, and there are one or two other people whomreaders of Mrs. Watts' books have met before. The dates of the story arefrom 1911 to the present year.       *       *       *       *       *_H. G. WELLS' NEW NOVEL_Joan and Peter_Cloth, 12mo, 1.75_"Never has Mr. Wells spread for such a gorgeous panorama ... a livingstory ... a vivacious narrative imperturbable in interest on every page,always fresh and personal and assured.... This is not a novel--it is alibrary. It is everything that one needs to know about the public life ofthe significant classes in England for last twenty-five years."--_TheDial_."Mr Wells, at his highest point of attainment.... An absorbinglyinteresting book ... consummate artistry ... here is Wells, the storyteller, the master of narrative."--_N.Y. Evening Sun_.       *       *       *       *       *_A NEW NOVEL BY WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE_In the Heart of a Fool_Cloth, 12mo, 1.60_"A big novel--a book that will profoundly affect the thoughts and thefeelings of the many who will read it.... Behind this chronicle lies thesecret of the next fifty years of American history. The fruit of this bookwill be an awakening of the sleeping consciences in many men and a glimpseof what it is to live in America to-day."--_N.Y. Sun_."A great work. In its scope it is one of the most comprehensive Americanromances ever written.... An intensely dramatic story.... We have seen notruer nor more vital portraiture of distinctive and important Americantypes."--_N.Y. Tribune_.       *       *       *       *       *Our HouseBY HENRY S. CANBY_Cloth, 12mo._Mr. Canby, known as a teacher of literature and critic, also as a writerof books on literary subjects, has written a novel, and one of singularappeal. Its central character is a young man facing the world, takinghimself perhaps over-seriously, but genuinely perplexed as to what to dowith himself. Coming back from college to a sleepy city on the borders ofthe South, his problem is, whether he shall subside into local businessaffairs, keep up the home which his father has struggled to maintain, orwhether he shall follow his instinct and try to do something worth whilein literature. This problem is made intensely practical through the deathof his father. The story of what the young man does is exceedinglyinteresting. It takes the hero to New York and into the semi-artificiallife of young Bohemia and ultimately brings him back home, where he findsthe real happiness and success.       *       *       *       *       *All the Brothers Were ValiantBY BEN AMES WILLIAMS_Cloth, 12mo._This is a stirring story of the sea somewhat suggestive in manner of JackLondon's work. It has to do with two brothers of a sea-going family who goon a cruise with the hope of ultimately finding their older brother, Mark,who was lost on his last voyage. The adventures which they have on amid-sea island, where Mark, pagan, pirate, pearl-hunter, is found, areabsorbing. Hidden treasure, mutinies, tropic love, all these are here. Thebook thrills with its incident and arouses admiration for its splendidcharacter portrayal.       *       *       *       *       *The Flaming Crucible: The faith of the Fighting MenBY ANDRE FRIBOURG_Cloth, 12mo, 1.50_Under the title _Croire_, this autobiography of a French infantryman waspublished in Paris in 1917. It is a revelation of the French spirit. It israther a biography of the spirit, than an account of the amazingexperiences M. Fribourg encountered, from 1911 at Agadir, through thefighting on the Meuse, and part of the campaign in Flanders. Thedescriptions are memorable for their beautiful style, their pathos ortheir elevation. There is a definite climax toward the end where M.Fribourg returns to a hospital in Paris, broken and dulled, his faithmomentarily befogged. Gradually he readapts himself, regains and confirmshis faith in the human spirit that was so vivid when he lived with hisfellow soldiers."An autobiographical novel, which was a close competitor for the lastGoncourt Academy Prize and which was seriously considered in connectionwith the recently awarded Grand Prix of the French Academy.""It emphasizes the benumbing monotony of the 'life in a circle' of billetand trench.""It portrays realistically, if a shade too methodically at times, theracking torments of hunger and thirst, the dreary importunity of the rain,the loathsomeness of the all-invading mud, the sickening horror of thecarrion smells, the pathetically inadequate relaxations of thecantonments.""It dissects (a shade too scientifically and cold-bloodedly at timesperhaps) the sentiments and emotions associated with attack and defence;the impulses that eventuate in heroism; the alternatingsuper-sensitiveness and callousness of the nerves; fear and the mastery offear; the 'hope deferred that maketh the heart sick'; the deviousstratagems of the terrible 'cafard' (blues).""It narrates dramatically the outstanding episodes; the perilous corvee ofbringing up fresh supplies of cartridges, the digging of an advance trenchunder fire, the pinioning of a comrade suddenly seized with dementia.""All this, with sanity, simplicity, and sincerity and in a language ofalmost classical restraint, as a rule, but engagingly piquant andpicturesque and fantastic even upon occasions."--_Boston EveningTranscript_.       *       *       *       *       *THE MACMILLAN COMPANYPublishers  64-66 Fifth Avenue  New York       *       *       *       *       *End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Jervaise Comedy, by J. D. Beresford*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE JERVAISE COMEDY ******** This file should be named 15116.txt or 15116.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/5/1/1/15116/Produced by Bill Tozier, Barbara Tozier, and the Online DistributedProofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of Sword Blades and Poppy Seed, by Amy LowellThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: Sword Blades and Poppy SeedAuthor: Amy LowellPosting Date: August 3, 2008 [EBook #1020]Release Date: August, 1997Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SWORD BLADES AND POPPY SEED ***Produced by Alan R. LightSWORD BLADES AND POPPY SEEDby Amy Lowell[American (Massachusetts) poet, 1874-1925.][Note on text: Lines longer than 78 characters have been cut andcontinued on the next line, which is indented 2 spaces unless in a prosepoem.]SWORD BLADES AND POPPY SEED     _"Face invisible! je t'ai gravee en medailles     D'argent doux comme l'aube pale,     D'or ardent comme le soleil,     D'airain sombre comme la nuit;     Il y en a de tout metal,     Qui tintent clair comme la joie,     Qui sonnent lourd comme la gloire,     Comme l'amour, comme la mort;     Et j'ai fait les plus belles de belle argile     Seche et fragile.     "Une a une, vous les comptiez en souriant,     Et vous disiez:  Il est habile;     Et vous passiez en souriant.     "Aucun de vous n'a donc vu     Que mes mains tremblaient de tendresse,     Que tout le grand songe terrestre     Vivait en moi pour vivre en eux     Que je gravais aux metaux pieux,     Mes Dieux."_               Henri de Regnier, "Les Medailles d'Argile".PrefaceNo one expects a man to make a chair without first learning how, butthere is a popular impression that the poet is born, not made, and thathis verses burst from his overflowing heart of themselves. As a matterof fact, the poet must learn his trade in the same manner, and with thesame painstaking care, as the cabinet-maker. His heart may overflow withhigh thoughts and sparkling fancies, but if he cannot convey them to hisreader by means of the written word he has no claim to be considered apoet.  A workman may be pardoned, therefore, for spending a few momentsto explain and describe the technique of his trade.  A work of beautywhich cannot stand an intimate examination is a poor and jerry-builtthing.In the first place, I wish to state my firm belief that poetry shouldnot try to teach, that it should exist simply because it is a createdbeauty, even if sometimes the beauty of a gothic grotesque.  We do notask the trees to teach us moral lessons, and only the Salvation Armyfeels it necessary to pin texts upon them.  We know that these texts areridiculous, but many of us do not yet see that to write an obvious moralall over a work of art, picture, statue, or poem, is not onlyridiculous, but timid and vulgar.  We distrust a beauty we only halfunderstand, and rush in with our impertinent suggestions.  How far weare from "admitting the Universe"!  The Universe, which flings down itscontinents and seas, and leaves them without comment.  Art is as much afunction of the Universe as an Equinoctial gale, or the Law ofGravitation; and we insist upon considering it merely a littlescroll-work, of no great importance unless it be studded with nailsfrom which pretty and uplifting sentiments may be hung!For the purely technical side I must state my immense debt to theFrench, and perhaps above all to the, so-called, Parnassian School,although some of the writers who have influenced me most do not belongto it. High-minded and untiring workmen, they have spared no pains toproduce a poetry finer than that of any other country in our time.Poetry so full of beauty and feeling, that the study of it is at once aninspiration and a despair to the artist.  The Anglo-Saxon of our day hasa tendency to think that a fine idea excuses slovenly workmanship. Theseclear-eyed Frenchmen are a reproof to our self-satisfied laziness.Before the works of Parnassians like Leconte de Lisle, and Jose-Maria deHeredia, or those of Henri de Regnier, Albert Samain, Francis Jammes,Remy de Gourmont, and Paul Fort, of the more modern school, we standrebuked.  Indeed--"They order this matter better in France."It is because in France, to-day, poetry is so living and vigorous athing, that so many metrical experiments come from there.  Only avigorous tree has the vitality to put forth new branches.  The poet withoriginality and power is always seeking to give his readers the samepoignant feeling which he has himself.  To do this he must constantlyfind new and striking images, delightful and unexpected forms.  Take theword "daybreak", for instance. What a remarkable picture it must oncehave conjured up! The great, round sun, like the yolk of some mightyegg, BREAKING through cracked and splintered clouds.  But we have said"daybreak" so often that we do not see the picture any more, it hasbecome only another word for dawn.  The poet must be constantly seekingnew pictures to make his readers feel the vitality of his thought.Many of the poems in this volume are written in what the French call"Vers Libre", a nomenclature more suited to French use and to Frenchversification than to ours.  I prefer to call them poems in "unrhymedcadence", for that conveys their exact meaning to an English ear.  Theyare built upon "organic rhythm", or the rhythm of the speaking voicewith its necessity for breathing, rather than upon a strict metricalsystem.  They differ from ordinary prose rhythms by being more curved,and containing more stress. The stress, and exceedingly marked curve, ofany regular metre is easily perceived.  These poems, built upon cadence,are more subtle, but the laws they follow are not less fixed.  Merelychopping prose lines into lengths does not produce cadence, it isconstructed upon mathematical and absolute laws of balance and time.  Inthe preface to his "Poems", Henley speaks of "those unrhyming rhythms inwhich I had tried to quintessentialize, as (I believe) one scarce can doin rhyme." The desire to "quintessentialize", to head-up an emotionuntil it burns white-hot, seems to be an integral part of the moderntemper, and certainly "unrhymed cadence" is unique in its power ofexpressing this.Three of these poems are written in a form which, so far as I know, hasnever before been attempted in English.  M. Paul Fort is its inventor,and the results it has yielded to him are most beautiful andsatisfactory. Perhaps it is more suited to the French language than toEnglish. But I found it the only medium in which these particular poemscould be written.  It is a fluid and changing form, now prose, nowverse, and permitting a great variety of treatment.But the reader will see that I have not entirely abandoned the moreclassic English metres.  I cannot see why, because certain manners suitcertain emotions and subjects, it should be considered imperative for anauthor to employ no others.  Schools are for those who can confinethemselves within them.  Perhaps it is a weakness in me that I cannot.In conclusion, I would say that these remarks are in answer to manyquestions asked me by people who have happened to read some of thesepoems in periodicals.  They are not for the purpose of forestallingcriticism, nor of courting it; and they deal, as I said in thebeginning, solely with the question of technique.  For the moreimportant part of the book, the poems must speak for themselves.                                             Amy Lowell.May 19, 1914.Contents          Sword Blades and Poppy Seed              Sword Blades          The Captured Goddess          The Precinct.  Rochester          The Cyclists          Sunshine through a Cobwebbed Window          A London Thoroughfare.  2 A.M.          Astigmatism          The Coal Picker          Storm-Racked          Convalescence          Patience          Apology          A Petition          A Blockhead          Stupidity          Irony          Happiness          The Last Quarter of the Moon          A Tale of Starvation          The Foreigner          Absence          A Gift          The Bungler          Fool's Money Bags          Miscast I          Miscast II          Anticipation          Vintage          The Tree of Scarlet Berries          Obligation          The Taxi          The Giver of Stars          The Temple          Epitaph of a Young Poet Who Died Before Having Achieved Success          In Answer to a Request              Poppy Seed          The Great Adventure of Max Breuck          Sancta Maria, Succurre Miseris          After Hearing a Waltz by Bartok          Clear, with Light, Variable Winds          The Basket          In a Castle          The Book of Hours of Sister Clotilde          The Exeter Road          The Shadow          The Forsaken          Late September          The Pike          The Blue Scarf          White and Green          Aubade          Music          A Lady          In a Garden          A Tulip GardenSword Blades And Poppy Seed      A drifting, April, twilight sky,      A wind which blew the puddles dry,      And slapped the river into waves      That ran and hid among the staves      Of an old wharf.  A watery light      Touched bleak the granite bridge, and white      Without the slightest tinge of gold,      The city shivered in the cold.      All day my thoughts had lain as dead,      Unborn and bursting in my head.      From time to time I wrote a word      Which lines and circles overscored.      My table seemed a graveyard, full      Of coffins waiting burial.      I seized these vile abortions, tore      Them into jagged bits, and swore      To be the dupe of hope no more.      Into the evening straight I went,      Starved of a day's accomplishment.      Unnoticing, I wandered where      The city gave a space for air,      And on the bridge's parapet      I leant, while pallidly there set      A dim, discouraged, worn-out sun.      Behind me, where the tramways run,      Blossomed bright lights, I turned to leave,      When someone plucked me by the sleeve.      "Your pardon, Sir, but I should be      Most grateful could you lend to me      A carfare, I have lost my purse."      The voice was clear, concise, and terse.      I turned and met the quiet gaze      Of strange eyes flashing through the haze.      The man was old and slightly bent,      Under his cloak some instrument      Disarranged its stately line,      He rested on his cane a fine      And nervous hand, an almandine      Smouldered with dull-red flames, sanguine      It burned in twisted gold, upon      His finger.  Like some Spanish don,      Conferring favours even when      Asking an alms, he bowed again      And waited.  But my pockets proved      Empty, in vain I poked and shoved,      No hidden penny lurking there      Greeted my search.  "Sir, I declare      I have no money, pray forgive,      But let me take you where you live."      And so we plodded through the mire      Where street lamps cast a wavering fire.      I took no note of where we went,      His talk became the element      Wherein my being swam, content.      It flashed like rapiers in the night      Lit by uncertain candle-light,      When on some moon-forsaken sward      A quarrel dies upon a sword.      It hacked and carved like a cutlass blade,      And the noise in the air the broad words made      Was the cry of the wind at a window-pane      On an Autumn night of sobbing rain.      Then it would run like a steady stream      Under pinnacled bridges where minarets gleam,      Or lap the air like the lapping tide      Where a marble staircase lifts its wide      Green-spotted steps to a garden gate,      And a waning moon is sinking straight      Down to a black and ominous sea,      While a nightingale sings in a lemon tree.      I walked as though some opiate      Had stung and dulled my brain, a state      Acute and slumbrous.  It grew late.      We stopped, a house stood silent, dark.      The old man scratched a match, the spark      Lit up the keyhole of a door,      We entered straight upon a floor      White with finest powdered sand      Carefully sifted, one might stand      Muddy and dripping, and yet no trace      Would stain the boards of this kitchen-place.      From the chimney, red eyes sparked the gloom,      And a cricket's chirp filled all the room.      My host threw pine-cones on the fire      And crimson and scarlet glowed the pyre      Wrapped in the golden flame's desire.      The chamber opened like an eye,      As a half-melted cloud in a Summer sky      The soul of the house stood guessed, and shy      It peered at the stranger warily.      A little shop with its various ware      Spread on shelves with nicest care.      Pitchers, and jars, and jugs, and pots,      Pipkins, and mugs, and many lots      Of lacquered canisters, black and gold,      Like those in which Chinese tea is sold.      Chests, and puncheons, kegs, and flasks,      Goblets, chalices, firkins, and casks.      In a corner three ancient amphorae leaned      Against the wall, like ships careened.      There was dusky blue of Wedgewood ware,      The carved, white figures fluttering there      Like leaves adrift upon the air.      Classic in touch, but emasculate,      The Greek soul grown effeminate.      The factory of Sevres had lent      Elegant boxes with ornament      Culled from gardens where fountains splashed      And golden carp in the shadows flashed,      Nuzzling for crumbs under lily-pads,      Which ladies threw as the last of fads.      Eggshell trays where gay beaux knelt,      Hand on heart, and daintily spelt      Their love in flowers, brittle and bright,      Artificial and fragile, which told aright      The vows of an eighteenth-century knight.      The cruder tones of old Dutch jugs      Glared from one shelf, where Toby mugs      Endlessly drank the foaming ale,      Its froth grown dusty, awaiting sale.      The glancing light of the burning wood      Played over a group of jars which stood      On a distant shelf, it seemed the sky      Had lent the half-tones of his blazonry      To paint these porcelains with unknown hues      Of reds dyed purple and greens turned blues,      Of lustres with so evanescent a sheen      Their colours are felt, but never seen.      Strange winged dragons writhe about      These vases, poisoned venoms spout,      Impregnate with old Chinese charms;      Sealed urns containing mortal harms,      They fill the mind with thoughts impure,      Pestilent drippings from the ure      Of vicious thinkings.  "Ah, I see,"      Said I, "you deal in pottery."      The old man turned and looked at me.      Shook his head gently.  "No," said he.      Then from under his cloak he took the thing      Which I had wondered to see him bring      Guarded so carefully from sight.      As he laid it down it flashed in the light,      A Toledo blade, with basket hilt,      Damascened with arabesques of gilt,      Or rather gold, and tempered so      It could cut a floating thread at a blow.      The old man smiled, "It has no sheath,      'Twas a little careless to have it beneath      My cloak, for a jostle to my arm      Would have resulted in serious harm.      But it was so fine, I could not wait,      So I brought it with me despite its state."      "An amateur of arms," I thought,      "Bringing home a prize which he has bought."      "You care for this sort of thing, Dear Sir?"      "Not in the way which you infer.      I need them in business, that is all."      And he pointed his finger at the wall.      Then I saw what I had not noticed before.      The walls were hung with at least five score      Of swords and daggers of every size      Which nations of militant men could devise.      Poisoned spears from tropic seas,      That natives, under banana trees,      Smear with the juice of some deadly snake.      Blood-dipped arrows, which savages make      And tip with feathers, orange and green,      A quivering death, in harlequin sheen.      High up, a fan of glancing steel      Was formed of claymores in a wheel.      Jewelled swords worn at kings' levees      Were suspended next midshipmen's dirks, and these      Elbowed stilettos come from Spain,      Chased with some splendid Hidalgo's name.      There were Samurai swords from old Japan,      And scimitars from Hindoostan,      While the blade of a Turkish yataghan      Made a waving streak of vitreous white      Upon the wall, in the firelight.      Foils with buttons broken or lost      Lay heaped on a chair, among them tossed      The boarding-pike of a privateer.      Against the chimney leaned a queer      Two-handed weapon, with edges dull      As though from hacking on a skull.      The rusted blood corroded it still.      My host took up a paper spill      From a heap which lay in an earthen bowl,      And lighted it at a burning coal.      At either end of the table, tall      Wax candles were placed, each in a small,      And slim, and burnished candlestick      Of pewter.  The old man lit each wick,      And the room leapt more obviously      Upon my mind, and I could see      What the flickering fire had hid from me.      Above the chimney's yawning throat,      Shoulder high, like the dark wainscote,      Was a mantelshelf of polished oak      Blackened with the pungent smoke      Of firelit nights; a Cromwell clock      Of tarnished brass stood like a rock      In the midst of a heaving, turbulent sea      Of every sort of cutlery.      There lay knives sharpened to any use,      The keenest lancet, and the obtuse      And blunted pruning bill-hook; blades      Of razors, scalpels, shears; cascades      Of penknives, with handles of mother-of-pearl,      And scythes, and sickles, and scissors; a whirl      Of points and edges, and underneath      Shot the gleam of a saw with bristling teeth.      My head grew dizzy, I seemed to hear      A battle-cry from somewhere near,      The clash of arms, and the squeal of balls,      And the echoless thud when a dead man falls.      A smoky cloud had veiled the room,      Shot through with lurid glares; the gloom      Pounded with shouts and dying groans,      With the drip of blood on cold, hard stones.      Sabres and lances in streaks of light      Gleamed through the smoke, and at my right      A creese, like a licking serpent's tongue,      Glittered an instant, while it stung.      Streams, and points, and lines of fire!      The livid steel, which man's desire      Had forged and welded, burned white and cold.      Every blade which man could mould,      Which could cut, or slash, or cleave, or rip,      Or pierce, or thrust, or carve, or strip,      Or gash, or chop, or puncture, or tear,      Or slice, or hack, they all were there.      Nerveless and shaking, round and round,      I stared at the walls and at the ground,      Till the room spun like a whipping top,      And a stern voice in my ear said, "Stop!      I sell no tools for murderers here.      Of what are you thinking!  Please clear      Your mind of such imaginings.      Sit down.  I will tell you of these things."      He pushed me into a great chair      Of russet leather, poked a flare      Of tumbling flame, with the old long sword,      Up the chimney; but said no word.      Slowly he walked to a distant shelf,      And brought back a crock of finest delf.      He rested a moment a blue-veined hand      Upon the cover, then cut a band      Of paper, pasted neatly round,      Opened and poured.  A sliding sound      Came from beneath his old white hands,      And I saw a little heap of sands,      Black and smooth.  What could they be:      "Pepper," I thought.  He looked at me.      "What you see is poppy seed.      Lethean dreams for those in need."      He took up the grains with a gentle hand      And sifted them slowly like hour-glass sand.      On his old white finger the almandine      Shot out its rays, incarnadine.      "Visions for those too tired to sleep.      These seeds cast a film over eyes which weep.      No single soul in the world could dwell,      Without these poppy-seeds I sell."      For a moment he played with the shining stuff,      Passing it through his fingers.  Enough      At last, he poured it back into      The china jar of Holland blue,      Which he carefully carried to its place.      Then, with a smile on his aged face,      He drew up a chair to the open space      'Twixt table and chimney.  "Without preface,      Young man, I will say that what you see      Is not the puzzle you take it to be."      "But surely, Sir, there is something strange      In a shop with goods at so wide a range      Each from the other, as swords and seeds.      Your neighbours must have greatly differing needs."      "My neighbours," he said, and he stroked his chin,      "Live everywhere from here to Pekin.      But you are wrong, my sort of goods      Is but one thing in all its moods."      He took a shagreen letter case      From his pocket, and with charming grace      Offered me a printed card.      I read the legend, "Ephraim Bard.      Dealer in Words."  And that was all.      I stared at the letters, whimsical      Indeed, or was it merely a jest.      He answered my unasked request:      "All books are either dreams or swords,      You can cut, or you can drug, with words.      My firm is a very ancient house,      The entries on my books would rouse      Your wonder, perhaps incredulity.      I inherited from an ancestry      Stretching remotely back and far,      This business, and my clients are      As were those of my grandfather's days,      Writers of books, and poems, and plays.      My swords are tempered for every speech,      For fencing wit, or to carve a breach      Through old abuses the world condones.      In another room are my grindstones and hones,      For whetting razors and putting a point      On daggers, sometimes I even anoint      The blades with a subtle poison, so      A twofold result may follow the blow.      These are purchased by men who feel      The need of stabbing society's heel,      Which egotism has brought them to think      Is set on their necks.  I have foils to pink      An adversary to quaint reply,      And I have customers who buy      Scalpels with which to dissect the brains      And hearts of men.  Ultramundanes      Even demand some finer kinds      To open their own souls and minds.      But the other half of my business deals      With visions and fancies.  Under seals,      Sorted, and placed in vessels here,      I keep the seeds of an atmosphere.      Each jar contains a different kind      Of poppy seed.  From farthest Ind      Come the purple flowers, opium filled,      From which the weirdest myths are distilled;      My orient porcelains contain them all.      Those Lowestoft pitchers against the wall      Hold a lighter kind of bright conceit;      And those old Saxe vases, out of the heat      On that lowest shelf beside the door,      Have a sort of Ideal, "couleur d'or".      Every castle of the air      Sleeps in the fine black grains, and there      Are seeds for every romance, or light      Whiff of a dream for a summer night.      I supply to every want and taste."      'Twas slowly said, in no great haste      He seemed to push his wares, but I      Dumfounded listened.  By and by      A log on the fire broke in two.      He looked up quickly, "Sir, and you?"      I groped for something I should say;      Amazement held me numb.  "To-day      You sweated at a fruitless task."      He spoke for me, "What do you ask?      How can I serve you?"  "My kind host,      My penniless state was not a boast;      I have no money with me."  He smiled.      "Not for that money I beguiled      You here; you paid me in advance."      Again I felt as though a trance      Had dimmed my faculties.  Again      He spoke, and this time to explain.      "The money I demand is Life,      Your nervous force, your joy, your strife!"      What infamous proposal now      Was made me with so calm a brow?      Bursting through my lethargy,      Indignantly I hurled the cry:      "Is this a nightmare, or am I      Drunk with some infernal wine?      I am no Faust, and what is mine      Is what I call my soul!  Old Man!      Devil or Ghost!  Your hellish plan      Revolts me.  Let me go."  "My child,"      And the old tones were very mild,      "I have no wish to barter souls;      My traffic does not ask such tolls.      I am no devil; is there one?      Surely the age of fear is gone.      We live within a daylight world      Lit by the sun, where winds unfurled      Sweep clouds to scatter pattering rain,      And then blow back the sun again.      I sell my fancies, or my swords,      To those who care far more for words,      Ideas, of which they are the sign,      Than any other life-design.      Who buy of me must simply pay      Their whole existence quite away:      Their strength, their manhood, and their prime,      Their hours from morning till the time      When evening comes on tiptoe feet,      And losing life, think it complete;      Must miss what other men count being,      To gain the gift of deeper seeing;      Must spurn all ease, all hindering love,      All which could hold or bind; must prove      The farthest boundaries of thought,      And shun no end which these have brought;      Then die in satisfaction, knowing      That what was sown was worth the sowing.      I claim for all the goods I sell      That they will serve their purpose well,      And though you perish, they will live.      Full measure for your pay I give.      To-day you worked, you thought, in vain.      What since has happened is the train      Your toiling brought.  I spoke to you      For my share of the bargain, due."      "My life!  And is that all you crave      In pay?  What even childhood gave!      I have been dedicate from youth.      Before my God I speak the truth!"      Fatigue, excitement of the past      Few hours broke me down at last.      All day I had forgot to eat,      My nerves betrayed me, lacking meat.      I bowed my head and felt the storm      Plough shattering through my prostrate form.      The tearless sobs tore at my heart.      My host withdrew himself apart;      Busied among his crockery,      He paid no farther heed to me.      Exhausted, spent, I huddled there,      Within the arms of the old carved chair.      A long half-hour dragged away,      And then I heard a kind voice say,      "The day will soon be dawning, when      You must begin to work again.      Here are the things which you require."      By the fading light of the dying fire,      And by the guttering candle's flare,      I saw the old man standing there.      He handed me a packet, tied      With crimson tape, and sealed.  "Inside      Are seeds of many differing flowers,      To occupy your utmost powers      Of storied vision, and these swords      Are the finest which my shop affords.      Go home and use them; do not spare      Yourself; let that be all your care.      Whatever you have means to buy      Be very sure I can supply."      He slowly walked to the window, flung      It open, and in the grey air rung      The sound of distant matin bells.      I took my parcels.  Then, as tells      An ancient mumbling monk his beads,      I tried to thank for his courteous deeds      My strange old friend.  "Nay, do not talk,"      He urged me, "you have a long walk      Before you.  Good-by and Good-day!"      And gently sped upon my way      I stumbled out in the morning hush,      As down the empty street a flush      Ran level from the rising sun.      Another day was just begun.SWORD BLADESThe Captured Goddess   Over the housetops,   Above the rotating chimney-pots,   I have seen a shiver of amethyst,   And blue and cinnamon have flickered   A moment,   At the far end of a dusty street.   Through sheeted rain   Has come a lustre of crimson,   And I have watched moonbeams   Hushed by a film of palest green.   It was her wings,   Goddess!   Who stepped over the clouds,   And laid her rainbow feathers   Aslant on the currents of the air.   I followed her for long,   With gazing eyes and stumbling feet.   I cared not where she led me,   My eyes were full of colours:   Saffrons, rubies, the yellows of beryls,   And the indigo-blue of quartz;   Flights of rose, layers of chrysoprase,   Points of orange, spirals of vermilion,   The spotted gold of tiger-lily petals,   The loud pink of bursting hydrangeas.   I followed,   And watched for the flashing of her wings.   In the city I found her,   The narrow-streeted city.   In the market-place I came upon her,   Bound and trembling.   Her fluted wings were fastened to her sides with cords,   She was naked and cold,   For that day the wind blew   Without sunshine.   Men chaffered for her,   They bargained in silver and gold,   In copper, in wheat,   And called their bids across the market-place.   The Goddess wept.   Hiding my face I fled,   And the grey wind hissed behind me,   Along the narrow streets.The Precinct.  Rochester   The tall yellow hollyhocks stand,   Still and straight,   With their round blossoms spread open,   In the quiet sunshine.   And still is the old Roman wall,   Rough with jagged bits of flint,   And jutting stones,   Old and cragged,   Quite still in its antiquity.   The pear-trees press their branches against it,   And feeling it warm and kindly,   The little pears ripen to yellow and red.   They hang heavy, bursting with juice,   Against the wall.   So old, so still!   The sky is still.   The clouds make no sound   As they slide away   Beyond the Cathedral Tower,   To the river,   And the sea.   It is very quiet,   Very sunny.   The myrtle flowers stretch themselves in the sunshine,   But make no sound.   The roses push their little tendrils up,   And climb higher and higher.   In spots they have climbed over the wall.   But they are very still,   They do not seem to move.   And the old wall carries them   Without effort, and quietly   Ripens and shields the vines and blossoms.   A bird in a plane-tree   Sings a few notes,   Cadenced and perfect   They weave into the silence.   The Cathedral bell knocks,   One, two, three, and again,   And then again.   It is a quiet sound,   Calling to prayer,   Hardly scattering the stillness,   Only making it close in more densely.   The gardener picks ripe gooseberries   For the Dean's supper to-night.   It is very quiet,   Very regulated and mellow.   But the wall is old,   It has known many days.   It is a Roman wall,   Left-over and forgotten.   Beyond the Cathedral Close   Yelp and mutter the discontents of people not mellow,   Not well-regulated.   People who care more for bread than for beauty,   Who would break the tombs of saints,   And give the painted windows of churches   To their children for toys.   People who say:   "They are dead, we live!   The world is for the living."   Fools!  It is always the dead who breed.   Crush the ripe fruit, and cast it aside,   Yet its seeds shall fructify,   And trees rise where your huts were standing.   But the little people are ignorant,   They chaffer, and swarm.   They gnaw like rats,   And the foundations of the Cathedral are honeycombed.   The Dean is in the Chapter House;   He is reading the architect's bill   For the completed restoration of the Cathedral.   He will have ripe gooseberries for supper,   And then he will walk up and down the path   By the wall,   And admire the snapdragons and dahlias,   Thinking how quiet and peaceful   The garden is.   The old wall will watch him,   Very quietly and patiently it will watch.   For the wall is old,   It is a Roman wall.The Cyclists   Spread on the roadway,   With open-blown jackets,   Like black, soaring pinions,   They swoop down the hillside,      The Cyclists.   Seeming dark-plumaged   Birds, after carrion,   Careening and circling,   Over the dying      Of England.   She lies with her bosom   Beneath them, no longer   The Dominant Mother,   The Virile--but rotting      Before time.   The smell of her, tainted,   Has bitten their nostrils.   Exultant they hover,   And shadow the sun with      Foreboding.Sunshine through a Cobwebbed Window   What charm is yours, you faded old-world tapestries,   Of outworn, childish mysteries,    Vague pageants woven on a web of dream!    And we, pushing and fighting in the turbid stream   Of modern life, find solace in your tarnished broideries.   Old lichened halls, sun-shaded by huge cedar-trees,   The layered branches horizontal stretched, like Japanese    Dark-banded prints.  Carven cathedrals, on a sky    Of faintest colour, where the gothic spires fly   And sway like masts, against a shifting breeze.   Worm-eaten pages, clasped in old brown vellum, shrunk   From over-handling, by some anxious monk.    Or Virgin's Hours, bright with gold and graven    With flowers, and rare birds, and all the Saints of Heaven,   And Noah's ark stuck on Ararat, when all the world had sunk.   They soothe us like a song, heard in a garden, sung   By youthful minstrels, on the moonlight flung    In cadences and falls, to ease a queen,    Widowed and childless, cowering in a screen   Of myrtles, whose life hangs with all its threads unstrung.A London Thoroughfare.  2 A.M.   They have watered the street,   It shines in the glare of lamps,   Cold, white lamps,   And lies   Like a slow-moving river,   Barred with silver and black.   Cabs go down it,   One,   And then another.   Between them I hear the shuffling of feet.   Tramps doze on the window-ledges,   Night-walkers pass along the sidewalks.   The city is squalid and sinister,   With the silver-barred street in the midst,   Slow-moving,   A river leading nowhere.   Opposite my window,   The moon cuts,   Clear and round,   Through the plum-coloured night.   She cannot light the city;   It is too bright.   It has white lamps,   And glitters coldly.   I stand in the window and watch the moon.   She is thin and lustreless,   But I love her.   I know the moon,   And this is an alien city.Astigmatism     To Ezra Pound     With much friendship and admiration and some differences of opinion   The Poet took his walking-stick   Of fine and polished ebony.   Set in the close-grained wood   Were quaint devices;   Patterns in ambers,   And in the clouded green of jades.   The top was of smooth, yellow ivory,   And a tassel of tarnished gold   Hung by a faded cord from a hole   Pierced in the hard wood,   Circled with silver.   For years the Poet had wrought upon this cane.   His wealth had gone to enrich it,   His experiences to pattern it,   His labour to fashion and burnish it.   To him it was perfect,   A work of art and a weapon,   A delight and a defence.   The Poet took his walking-stick   And walked abroad.   Peace be with you, Brother.   The Poet came to a meadow.   Sifted through the grass were daisies,   Open-mouthed, wondering, they gazed at the sun.   The Poet struck them with his cane.   The little heads flew off, and they lay   Dying, open-mouthed and wondering,   On the hard ground.   "They are useless.  They are not roses," said the Poet.   Peace be with you, Brother.  Go your ways.   The Poet came to a stream.   Purple and blue flags waded in the water;   In among them hopped the speckled frogs;   The wind slid through them, rustling.   The Poet lifted his cane,   And the iris heads fell into the water.   They floated away, torn and drowning.   "Wretched flowers," said the Poet,   "They are not roses."   Peace be with you, Brother.  It is your affair.   The Poet came to a garden.   Dahlias ripened against a wall,   Gillyflowers stood up bravely for all their short stature,   And a trumpet-vine covered an arbour   With the red and gold of its blossoms.   Red and gold like the brass notes of trumpets.   The Poet knocked off the stiff heads of the dahlias,   And his cane lopped the gillyflowers at the ground.   Then he severed the trumpet-blossoms from their stems.   Red and gold they lay scattered,   Red and gold, as on a battle field;   Red and gold, prone and dying.   "They were not roses," said the Poet.   Peace be with you, Brother.   But behind you is destruction, and waste places.   The Poet came home at evening,   And in the candle-light   He wiped and polished his cane.   The orange candle flame leaped in the yellow ambers,   And made the jades undulate like green pools.   It played along the bright ebony,   And glowed in the top of cream-coloured ivory.   But these things were dead,   Only the candle-light made them seem to move.   "It is a pity there were no roses," said the Poet.   Peace be with you, Brother.  You have chosen your part.The Coal Picker   He perches in the slime, inert,   Bedaubed with iridescent dirt.   The oil upon the puddles dries   To colours like a peacock's eyes,   And half-submerged tomato-cans   Shine scaly, as leviathans   Oozily crawling through the mud.   The ground is here and there bestud   With lumps of only part-burned coal.   His duty is to glean the whole,   To pick them from the filth, each one,   To hoard them for the hidden sun   Which glows within each fiery core   And waits to be made free once more.   Their sharp and glistening edges cut   His stiffened fingers.  Through the smut   Gleam red the wounds which will not shut.   Wet through and shivering he kneels   And digs the slippery coals; like eels   They slide about.  His force all spent,   He counts his small accomplishment.   A half-a-dozen clinker-coals   Which still have fire in their souls.   Fire!  And in his thought there burns   The topaz fire of votive urns.   He sees it fling from hill to hill,   And still consumed, is burning still.   Higher and higher leaps the flame,   The smoke an ever-shifting frame.   He sees a Spanish Castle old,   With silver steps and paths of gold.   From myrtle bowers comes the plash   Of fountains, and the emerald flash   Of parrots in the orange trees,   Whose blossoms pasture humming bees.   He knows he feeds the urns whose smoke   Bears visions, that his master-stroke   Is out of dirt and misery   To light the fire of poesy.   He sees the glory, yet he knows   That others cannot see his shows.   To them his smoke is sightless, black,   His votive vessels but a pack   Of old discarded shards, his fire   A peddler's; still to him the pyre   Is incensed, an enduring goal!   He sighs and grubs another coal.Storm-Racked   How should I sing when buffeting salt waves    And stung with bitter surges, in whose might    I toss, a cockleshell?  The dreadful night   Marshals its undefeated dark and raves   In brutal madness, reeling over graves    Of vanquished men, long-sunken out of sight,    Sent wailing down to glut the ghoulish sprite   Who haunts foul seaweed forests and their caves.    No parting cloud reveals a watery star,   My cries are washed away upon the wind,    My cramped and blistering hands can find no spar,   My eyes with hope o'erstrained, are growing blind.    But painted on the sky great visions burn,    My voice, oblation from a shattered urn!Convalescence   From out the dragging vastness of the sea,    Wave-fettered, bound in sinuous, seaweed strands,    He toils toward the rounding beach, and stands   One moment, white and dripping, silently,   Cut like a cameo in lazuli,    Then falls, betrayed by shifting shells, and lands    Prone in the jeering water, and his hands   Clutch for support where no support can be.    So up, and down, and forward, inch by inch,   He gains upon the shore, where poppies glow   And sandflies dance their little lives away.    The sucking waves retard, and tighter clinch   The weeds about him, but the land-winds blow,   And in the sky there blooms the sun of May.Patience   Be patient with you?    When the stooping sky   Leans down upon the hills   And tenderly, as one who soothing stills    An anguish, gathers earth to lie   Embraced and girdled.  Do the sun-filled men    Feel patience then?   Be patient with you?    When the snow-girt earth   Cracks to let through a spurt   Of sudden green, and from the muddy dirt    A snowdrop leaps, how mark its worth   To eyes frost-hardened, and do weary men    Feel patience then?   Be patient with you?    When pain's iron bars   Their rivets tighten, stern   To bend and break their victims; as they turn,    Hopeless, there stand the purple jars   Of night to spill oblivion.  Do these men    Feel patience then?   Be patient with you?    You!  My sun and moon!   My basketful of flowers!   My money-bag of shining dreams!  My hours,    Windless and still, of afternoon!   You are my world and I your citizen.    What meaning can have patience then?Apology   Be not angry with me that I bear    Your colours everywhere,    All through each crowded street,     And meet    The wonder-light in every eye,     As I go by.   Each plodding wayfarer looks up to gaze,    Blinded by rainbow haze,    The stuff of happiness,     No less,    Which wraps me in its glad-hued folds     Of peacock golds.   Before my feet the dusty, rough-paved way    Flushes beneath its gray.    My steps fall ringed with light,     So bright,    It seems a myriad suns are strown     About the town.   Around me is the sound of steepled bells,    And rich perfumed smells    Hang like a wind-forgotten cloud,     And shroud    Me from close contact with the world.     I dwell impearled.   You blazon me with jewelled insignia.    A flaming nebula    Rims in my life.  And yet     You set    The word upon me, unconfessed     To go unguessed.A Petition   I pray to be the tool which to your hand    Long use has shaped and moulded till it be    Apt for your need, and, unconsideringly,   You take it for its service.  I demand   To be forgotten in the woven strand    Which grows the multi-coloured tapestry    Of your bright life, and through its tissues lie   A hidden, strong, sustaining, grey-toned band.    I wish to dwell around your daylight dreams,   The railing to the stairway of the clouds,    To guard your steps securely up, where streams   A faery moonshine washing pale the crowds    Of pointed stars.  Remember not whereby    You mount, protected, to the far-flung sky.A Blockhead   Before me lies a mass of shapeless days,    Unseparated atoms, and I must    Sort them apart and live them.  Sifted dust   Covers the formless heap.  Reprieves, delays,   There are none, ever.  As a monk who prays    The sliding beads asunder, so I thrust    Each tasteless particle aside, and just   Begin again the task which never stays.    And I have known a glory of great suns,   When days flashed by, pulsing with joy and fire!   Drunk bubbled wine in goblets of desire,    And felt the whipped blood laughing as it runs!   Spilt is that liquor, my too hasty hand   Threw down the cup, and did not understand.Stupidity   Dearest, forgive that with my clumsy touch    I broke and bruised your rose.    I hardly could suppose   It were a thing so fragile that my clutch       Could kill it, thus.   It stood so proudly up upon its stem,    I knew no thought of fear,    And coming very near   Fell, overbalanced, to your garment's hem,       Tearing it down.   Now, stooping, I upgather, one by one,    The crimson petals, all    Outspread about my fall.   They hold their fragrance still, a blood-red cone       Of memory.   And with my words I carve a little jar    To keep their scented dust,    Which, opening, you must   Breathe to your soul, and, breathing, know me far       More grieved than you.Irony   An arid daylight shines along the beach    Dried to a grey monotony of tone,    And stranded jelly-fish melt soft upon   The sun-baked pebbles, far beyond their reach   Sparkles a wet, reviving sea.  Here bleach    The skeletons of fishes, every bone    Polished and stark, like traceries of stone,   The joints and knuckles hardened each to each.    And they are dead while waiting for the sea,    The moon-pursuing sea, to come again.   Their hearts are blown away on the hot breeze.    Only the shells and stones can wait to be    Washed bright.  For living things, who suffer pain,   May not endure till time can bring them ease.Happiness   Happiness, to some, elation;   Is, to others, mere stagnation.   Days of passive somnolence,   At its wildest, indolence.   Hours of empty quietness,   No delight, and no distress.   Happiness to me is wine,   Effervescent, superfine.   Full of tang and fiery pleasure,   Far too hot to leave me leisure   For a single thought beyond it.   Drunk!  Forgetful!  This the bond:  it   Means to give one's soul to gain   Life's quintessence.  Even pain   Pricks to livelier living, then   Wakes the nerves to laugh again,   Rapture's self is three parts sorrow.   Although we must die to-morrow,   Losing every thought but this;   Torn, triumphant, drowned in bliss.   Happiness:  We rarely feel it.   I would buy it, beg it, steal it,   Pay in coins of dripping blood   For this one transcendent good.The Last Quarter of the Moon   How long shall I tarnish the mirror of life,   A spatter of rust on its polished steel!    The seasons reel    Like a goaded wheel.   Half-numb, half-maddened, my days are strife.   The night is sliding towards the dawn,   And upturned hills crouch at autumn's knees.    A torn moon flees    Through the hemlock trees,   The hours have gnawed it to feed their spawn.   Pursuing and jeering the misshapen thing   A rabble of clouds flares out of the east.    Like dogs unleashed    After a beast,   They stream on the sky, an outflung string.   A desolate wind, through the unpeopled dark,   Shakes the bushes and whistles through empty nests,    And the fierce unrests    I keep as guests   Crowd my brain with corpses, pallid and stark.   Leave me in peace, O Spectres, who haunt   My labouring mind, I have fought and failed.    I have not quailed,    I was all unmailed   And naked I strove, 'tis my only vaunt.   The moon drops into the silver day   As waking out of her swoon she comes.    I hear the drums    Of millenniums   Beating the mornings I still must stay.   The years I must watch go in and out,   While I build with water, and dig in air,    And the trumpets blare    Hollow despair,   The shuddering trumpets of utter rout.   An atom tossed in a chaos made   Of yeasting worlds, which bubble and foam.    Whence have I come?    What would be home?   I hear no answer.  I am afraid!   I crave to be lost like a wind-blown flame.   Pushed into nothingness by a breath,    And quench in a wreath    Of engulfing death   This fight for a God, or this devil's game.A Tale of Starvation   There once was a man whom the gods didn't love,    And a disagreeable man was he.   He loathed his neighbours, and his neighbours hated him,    And he cursed eternally.   He damned the sun, and he damned the stars,    And he blasted the winds in the sky.   He sent to Hell every green, growing thing,    And he raved at the birds as they fly.   His oaths were many, and his range was wide,    He swore in fancy ways;   But his meaning was plain:  that no created thing    Was other than a hurt to his gaze.   He dwelt all alone, underneath a leaning hill,    And windows toward the hill there were none,   And on the other side they were white-washed thick,    To keep out every spark of the sun.   When he went to market he walked all the way    Blaspheming at the path he trod.   He cursed at those he bought of, and swore at those he sold to,    By all the names he knew of God.   For his heart was soured in his weary old hide,    And his hopes had curdled in his breast.   His friend had been untrue, and his love had thrown him over    For the chinking money-bags she liked best.   The rats had devoured the contents of his grain-bin,    The deer had trampled on his corn,   His brook had shrivelled in a summer drought,    And his sheep had died unshorn.   His hens wouldn't lay, and his cow broke loose,    And his old horse perished of a colic.   In the loft his wheat-bags were nibbled into holes    By little, glutton mice on a frolic.   So he slowly lost all he ever had,    And the blood in his body dried.   Shrunken and mean he still lived on,    And cursed that future which had lied.   One day he was digging, a spade or two,    As his aching back could lift,   When he saw something glisten at the bottom of the trench,    And to get it out he made great shift.   So he dug, and he delved, with care and pain,    And the veins in his forehead stood taut.   At the end of an hour, when every bone cracked,    He gathered up what he had sought.   A dim old vase of crusted glass,    Prismed while it lay buried deep.   Shifting reds and greens, like a pigeon's neck,    At the touch of the sun began to leap.   It was dull in the tree-shade, but glowing in the light;    Flashing like an opal-stone,   Carved into a flagon; and the colours glanced and ran,    Where at first there had seemed to be none.   It had handles on each side to bear it up,    And a belly for the gurgling wine.   Its neck was slender, and its mouth was wide,    And its lip was curled and fine.   The old man saw it in the sun's bright stare    And the colours started up through the crust,   And he who had cursed at the yellow sun    Held the flask to it and wiped away the dust.   And he bore the flask to the brightest spot,    Where the shadow of the hill fell clear;   And he turned the flask, and he looked at the flask,    And the sun shone without his sneer.   Then he carried it home, and put it on a shelf,    But it was only grey in the gloom.   So he fetched a pail, and a bit of cloth,    And he went outside with a broom.   And he washed his windows just to let the sun    Lie upon his new-found vase;   And when evening came, he moved it down    And put it on a table near the place   Where a candle fluttered in a draught from the door.    The old man forgot to swear,   Watching its shadow grown a mammoth size,    Dancing in the kitchen there.   He forgot to revile the sun next morning    When he found his vase afire in its light.   And he carried it out of the house that day,    And kept it close beside him until night.   And so it happened from day to day.    The old man fed his life   On the beauty of his vase, on its perfect shape.    And his soul forgot its former strife.   And the village-folk came and begged to see    The flagon which was dug from the ground.   And the old man never thought of an oath, in his joy    At showing what he had found.   One day the master of the village school    Passed him as he stooped at toil,   Hoeing for a bean-row, and at his side    Was the vase, on the turned-up soil.   "My friend," said the schoolmaster, pompous and kind,    "That's a valuable thing you have there,   But it might get broken out of doors,    It should meet with the utmost care.   What are you doing with it out here?"    "Why, Sir," said the poor old man,   "I like to have it about, do you see?    To be with it all I can."   "You will smash it," said the schoolmaster, sternly right,    "Mark my words and see!"   And he walked away, while the old man looked    At his treasure despondingly.   Then he smiled to himself, for it was his!    He had toiled for it, and now he cared.   Yes! loved its shape, and its subtle, swift hues,    Which his own hard work had bared.   He would carry it round with him everywhere,    As it gave him joy to do.   A fragile vase should not stand in a bean-row!    Who would dare to say so?  Who?   Then his heart was rested, and his fears gave way,    And he bent to his hoe again....   A clod rolled down, and his foot slipped back,    And he lurched with a cry of pain.   For the blade of the hoe crashed into glass,    And the vase fell to iridescent sherds.   The old man's body heaved with slow, dry sobs.    He did not curse, he had no words.   He gathered the fragments, one by one,    And his fingers were cut and torn.   Then he made a hole in the very place    Whence the beautiful vase had been borne.   He covered the hole, and he patted it down,    Then he hobbled to his house and shut the door.   He tore up his coat and nailed it at the windows    That no beam of light should cross the floor.   He sat down in front of the empty hearth,    And he neither ate nor drank.   In three days they found him, dead and cold,    And they said:  "What a queer old crank!"The Foreigner   Have at you, you Devils!    My back's to this tree,   For you're nothing so nice    That the hind-side of me   Would escape your assault.    Come on now, all three!   Here's a dandified gentleman,    Rapier at point,   And a wrist which whirls round    Like a circular joint.   A spatter of blood, man!    That's just to anoint   And make supple your limbs.    'Tis a pity the silk   Of your waistcoat is stained.    Why!  Your heart's full of milk,   And so full, it spills over!    I'm not of your ilk.   You said so, and laughed    At my old-fashioned hose,   At the cut of my hair,    At the length of my nose.   To carve it to pattern    I think you propose.   Your pardon, young Sir,    But my nose and my sword   Are proving themselves    In quite perfect accord.   I grieve to have spotted    Your shirt.  On my word!   And hullo!  You Bully!    That blade's not a stick   To slash right and left,    And my skull is too thick   To be cleft with such cuffs    Of a sword.  Now a lick   Down the side of your face.    What a pretty, red line!   Tell the taverns that scar    Was an honour.  Don't whine   That a stranger has marked you.        *    *    *    *    *    The tree's there, You Swine!   Did you think to get in    At the back, while your friends   Made a little diversion    In front?  So it ends,   With your sword clattering down    On the ground.  'Tis amends   I make for your courteous    Reception of me,   A foreigner, landed    From over the sea.   Your welcome was fervent    I think you'll agree.   My shoes are not buckled    With gold, nor my hair   Oiled and scented, my jacket's    Not satin, I wear   Corded breeches, wide hats,    And I make people stare!   So I do, but my heart    Is the heart of a man,   And my thoughts cannot twirl    In the limited span   'Twixt my head and my heels,    As some other men's can.   I have business more strange    Than the shape of my boots,   And my interests range    From the sky, to the roots   Of this dung-hill you live in,    You half-rotted shoots   Of a mouldering tree!    Here's at you, once more.   You Apes!  You Jack-fools!    You can show me the door,   And jeer at my ways,    But you're pinked to the core.   And before I have done,    I will prick my name in   With the front of my steel,    And your lily-white skin   Shall be printed with me.    For I've come here to win!Absence   My cup is empty to-night,   Cold and dry are its sides,   Chilled by the wind from the open window.   Empty and void, it sparkles white in the moonlight.   The room is filled with the strange scent   Of wistaria blossoms.   They sway in the moon's radiance   And tap against the wall.   But the cup of my heart is still,   And cold, and empty.   When you come, it brims   Red and trembling with blood,   Heart's blood for your drinking;   To fill your mouth with love   And the bitter-sweet taste of a soul.A Gift   See!  I give myself to you, Beloved!   My words are little jars   For you to take and put upon a shelf.   Their shapes are quaint and beautiful,   And they have many pleasant colours and lustres   To recommend them.   Also the scent from them fills the room   With sweetness of flowers and crushed grasses.   When I shall have given you the last one,   You will have the whole of me,   But I shall be dead.The Bungler   You glow in my heart   Like the flames of uncounted candles.   But when I go to warm my hands,   My clumsiness overturns the light,   And then I stumble   Against the tables and chairs.Fool's Money Bags   Outside the long window,   With his head on the stone sill,   The dog is lying,   Gazing at his Beloved.   His eyes are wet and urgent,   And his body is taut and shaking.   It is cold on the terrace;   A pale wind licks along the stone slabs,   But the dog gazes through the glass   And is content.   The Beloved is writing a letter.   Occasionally she speaks to the dog,   But she is thinking of her writing.   Does she, too, give her devotion to one   Not worthy?Miscast I   I have whetted my brain until it is like a Damascus blade,   So keen that it nicks off the floating fringes of passers-by,   So sharp that the air would turn its edge   Were it to be twisted in flight.   Licking passions have bitten their arabesques into it,   And the mark of them lies, in and out,   Worm-like,   With the beauty of corroded copper patterning white steel.   My brain is curved like a scimitar,   And sighs at its cutting   Like a sickle mowing grass.   But of what use is all this to me!   I, who am set to crack stones   In a country lane!Miscast II   My heart is like a cleft pomegranate   Bleeding crimson seeds   And dripping them on the ground.   My heart gapes because it is ripe and over-full,   And its seeds are bursting from it.   But how is this other than a torment to me!   I, who am shut up, with broken crockery,   In a dark closet!Anticipation   I have been temperate always,   But I am like to be very drunk   With your coming.   There have been times   I feared to walk down the street   Lest I should reel with the wine of you,   And jerk against my neighbours   As they go by.   I am parched now, and my tongue is horrible in my mouth,   But my brain is noisy   With the clash and gurgle of filling wine-cups.Vintage   I will mix me a drink of stars,--   Large stars with polychrome needles,   Small stars jetting maroon and crimson,   Cool, quiet, green stars.   I will tear them out of the sky,   And squeeze them over an old silver cup,   And I will pour the cold scorn of my Beloved into it,   So that my drink shall be bubbled with ice.   It will lap and scratch   As I swallow it down;   And I shall feel it as a serpent of fire,   Coiling and twisting in my belly.   His snortings will rise to my head,   And I shall be hot, and laugh,   Forgetting that I have ever known a woman.The Tree of Scarlet Berries   The rain gullies the garden paths   And tinkles on the broad sides of grass blades.   A tree, at the end of my arm, is hazy with mist.   Even so, I can see that it has red berries,   A scarlet fruit,   Filmed over with moisture.   It seems as though the rain,   Dripping from it,   Should be tinged with colour.   I desire the berries,   But, in the mist, I only scratch my hand on the thorns.   Probably, too, they are bitter.Obligation   Hold your apron wide   That I may pour my gifts into it,   So that scarcely shall your two arms hinder them   From falling to the ground.   I would pour them upon you   And cover you,   For greatly do I feel this need   Of giving you something,   Even these poor things.   Dearest of my Heart!The Taxi   When I go away from you   The world beats dead   Like a slackened drum.   I call out for you against the jutted stars   And shout into the ridges of the wind.   Streets coming fast,   One after the other,   Wedge you away from me,   And the lamps of the city prick my eyes   So that I can no longer see your face.   Why should I leave you,   To wound myself upon the sharp edges of the night?The Giver of Stars   Hold your soul open for my welcoming.   Let the quiet of your spirit bathe me   With its clear and rippled coolness,   That, loose-limbed and weary, I find rest,   Outstretched upon your peace, as on a bed of ivory.   Let the flickering flame of your soul play all about me,   That into my limbs may come the keenness of fire,   The life and joy of tongues of flame,   And, going out from you, tightly strung and in tune,   I may rouse the blear-eyed world,   And pour into it the beauty which you have begotten.The Temple   Between us leapt a gold and scarlet flame.    Into the hollow of the cupped, arched blue    Of Heaven it rose.  Its flickering tongues up-drew   And vanished in the sunshine.  How it came   We guessed not, nor what thing could be its name.    From each to each had sprung those sparks which flew    Together into fire.  But we knew   The winds would slap and quench it in their game.    And so we graved and fashioned marble blocks   To treasure it, and placed them round about.   With pillared porticos we wreathed the whole,    And roofed it with bright bronze.  Behind carved locks   Flowered the tall and sheltered flame.  Without,   The baffled winds thrust at a column's bole.Epitaph of a Young Poet Who Died Before Having Achieved Success   Beneath this sod lie the remains   Of one who died of growing pains.In Answer to a Request   You ask me for a sonnet.  Ah, my Dear,    Can clocks tick back to yesterday at noon?    Can cracked and fallen leaves recall last June   And leap up on the boughs, now stiff and sere?   For your sake, I would go and seek the year,    Faded beyond the purple ranks of dune,    Blown sands of drifted hours, which the moon   Streaks with a ghostly finger, and her sneer    Pulls at my lengthening shadow.  Yes, 'tis that!    My shadow stretches forward, and the ground   Is dark in front because the light's behind.    It is grotesque, with such a funny hat,    In watching it and walking I have found   More than enough to occupy my mind.   I cannot turn, the light would make me blind.POPPY SEEDThe Great Adventure of Max Breuck       1   A yellow band of light upon the street   Pours from an open door, and makes a wide   Pathway of bright gold across a sheet   Of calm and liquid moonshine.  From inside   Come shouts and streams of laughter, and a snatch   Of song, soon drowned and lost again in mirth,   The clip of tankards on a table top,   And stir of booted heels.  Against the patch   Of candle-light a shadow falls, its girth   Proclaims the host himself, and master of his shop.       2   This is the tavern of one Hilverdink,   Jan Hilverdink, whose wines are much esteemed.   Within his cellar men can have to drink   The rarest cordials old monks ever schemed   To coax from pulpy grapes, and with nice art   Improve and spice their virgin juiciness.   Here froths the amber beer of many a brew,   Crowning each pewter tankard with as smart   A cap as ever in his wantonness   Winter set glittering on top of an old yew.       3   Tall candles stand upon the table, where   Are twisted glasses, ruby-sparked with wine,   Clarets and ports.  Those topaz bumpers were   Drained from slim, long-necked bottles of the Rhine.   The centre of the board is piled with pipes,   Slender and clean, the still unbaptized clay   Awaits its burning fate.  Behind, the vault   Stretches from dim to dark, a groping way   Bordered by casks and puncheons, whose brass stripes   And bands gleam dully still, beyond the gay tumult.       4   "For good old Master Hilverdink, a toast!"   Clamoured a youth with tassels on his boots.   "Bring out your oldest brandy for a boast,   From that small barrel in the very roots   Of your deep cellar, man.  Why here is Max!   Ho!  Welcome, Max, you're scarcely here in time.   We want to drink to old Jan's luck, and smoke   His best tobacco for a grand climax.   Here, Jan, a paper, fragrant as crushed thyme,   We'll have the best to wish you luck, or may we choke!"       5   Max Breuck unclasped his broadcloth cloak, and sat.   "Well thought of, Franz; here's luck to Mynheer Jan."   The host set down a jar; then to a vat   Lost in the distance of his cellar, ran.   Max took a pipe as graceful as the stem   Of some long tulip, crammed it full, and drew   The pungent smoke deep to his grateful lung.   It curled all blue throughout the cave and flew   Into the silver night.  At once there flung   Into the crowded shop a boy, who cried to them:       6   "Oh, sirs, is there some learned lawyer here,   Some advocate, or all-wise counsellor?   My master sent me to inquire where   Such men do mostly be, but every door   Was shut and barred, for late has grown the hour.   I pray you tell me where I may now find   One versed in law, the matter will not wait."   "I am a lawyer, boy," said Max, "my mind   Is not locked to my business, though 'tis late.   I shall be glad to serve what way is in my power.       7   Then once more, cloaked and ready, he set out,   Tripping the footsteps of the eager boy   Along the dappled cobbles, while the rout   Within the tavern jeered at his employ.   Through new-burst elm leaves filtered the white moon,   Who peered and splashed between the twinkling boughs,   Flooded the open spaces, and took flight   Before tall, serried houses in platoon,   Guarded by shadows.  Past the Custom House   They took their hurried way in the Spring-scented night.       8   Before a door which fronted a canal   The boy halted.  A dim tree-shaded spot.   The water lapped the stones in musical   And rhythmic tappings, and a galliot   Slumbered at anchor with no light aboard.   The boy knocked twice, and steps approached.  A flame   Winked through the keyhole, then a key was turned,   And through the open door Max went toward   Another door, whence sound of voices came.   He entered a large room where candelabra burned.       9   An aged man in quilted dressing gown   Rose up to greet him.  "Sir," said Max, "you sent   Your messenger to seek throughout the town   A lawyer.  I have small accomplishment,   But I am at your service, and my name   Is Max Breuck, Counsellor, at your command."   "Mynheer," replied the aged man, "obliged   Am I, and count myself much privileged.   I am Cornelius Kurler, and my fame   Is better known on distant oceans than on land.       10   My ship has tasted water in strange seas,   And bartered goods at still uncharted isles.   She's oft coquetted with a tropic breeze,   And sheered off hurricanes with jaunty smiles."   "Tush, Kurler," here broke in the other man,   "Enough of poetry, draw the deed and sign."   The old man seemed to wizen at the voice,   "My good friend, Grootver,--" he at once began.   "No introductions, let us have some wine,   And business, now that you at last have made your choice."       11   A harsh and disagreeable man he proved to be,   This Grootver, with no single kindly thought.   Kurler explained, his old hands nervously   Twisting his beard.  His vessel he had bought   From Grootver.  He had thought to soon repay   The ducats borrowed, but an adverse wind   Had so delayed him that his cargo brought   But half its proper price, the very day   He came to port he stepped ashore to find   The market glutted and his counted profits naught.       12   Little by little Max made out the way   That Grootver pressed that poor harassed old man.   His money he must have, too long delay   Had turned the usurer to a ruffian.   "But let me take my ship, with many bales   Of cotton stuffs dyed crimson, green, and blue,   Cunningly patterned, made to suit the taste   Of mandarin's ladies; when my battered sails   Open for home, such stores will I bring you   That all your former ventures will be counted waste.       13   Such light and foamy silks, like crinkled cream,   And indigo more blue than sun-whipped seas,   Spices and fragrant trees, a massive beam   Of sandalwood, and pungent China teas,   Tobacco, coffee!"  Grootver only laughed.   Max heard it all, and worse than all he heard   The deed to which the sailor gave his word.   He shivered, 'twas as if the villain gaffed   The old man with a boat-hook; bleeding, spent,   He begged for life nor knew at all the road he went.       14   For Kurler had a daughter, young and gay,   Carefully reared and shielded, rarely seen.   But on one black and most unfriendly day   Grootver had caught her as she passed between   The kitchen and the garden.  She had run   In fear of him, his evil leering eye,   And when he came she, bolted in her room,   Refused to show, though gave no reason why.   The spinning of her future had begun,   On quiet nights she heard the whirring of her doom.       15   Max mended an old goosequill by the fire,   Loathing his work, but seeing no thing to do.   He felt his hands were building up the pyre   To burn two souls, and seized with vertigo   He staggered to his chair.  Before him lay   White paper still unspotted by a crime.   "Now, young man, write," said Grootver in his ear.   "`If in two years my vessel should yet stay   From Amsterdam, I give Grootver, sometime   A friend, my daughter for his lawful wife.'  Now swear."       16   And Kurler swore, a palsied, tottering sound,   And traced his name, a shaking, wandering line.   Then dazed he sat there, speechless from his wound.   Grootver got up:  "Fair voyage, the brigantine!"   He shuffled from the room, and left the house.   His footsteps wore to silence down the street.   At last the aged man began to rouse.   With help he once more gained his trembling feet.   "My daughter, Mynheer Breuck, is friendless now.   Will you watch over her?  I ask a solemn vow."       17   Max laid his hand upon the old man's arm,   "Before God, sir, I vow, when you are gone,   So to protect your daughter from all harm   As one man may."  Thus sorrowful, forlorn,   The situation to Max Breuck appeared,   He gave his promise almost without thought,   Nor looked to see a difficulty.  "Bred   Gently to watch a mother left alone;   Bound by a dying father's wish, who feared   The world's accustomed harshness when he should be dead;       18   Such was my case from youth, Mynheer Kurler.   Last Winter she died also, and my days   Are passed in work, lest I should grieve for her,   And undo habits used to earn her praise.   My leisure I will gladly give to see   Your household and your daughter prosperous."   The sailor said his thanks, but turned away.   He could not brook that his humility,   So little wonted, and so tremulous,   Should first before a stranger make such great display.       19   "Come here to-morrow as the bells ring noon,   I sail at the full sea, my daughter then   I will make known to you.  'Twill be a boon   If after I have bid good-by, and when   Her eyeballs scorch with watching me depart,   You bring her home again.  She lives with one   Old serving-woman, who has brought her up.   But that is no friend for so free a heart.   No head to match her questions.  It is done.   And I must sail away to come and brim her cup.       20   My ship's the fastest that owns Amsterdam   As home, so not a letter can you send.   I shall be back, before to where I am   Another ship could reach.  Now your stipend--"   Quickly Breuck interposed.  "When you once more   Tread on the stones which pave our streets.--Good night!   To-morrow I will be, at stroke of noon,   At the great wharf."  Then hurrying, in spite   Of cake and wine the old man pressed upon   Him ere he went, he took his leave and shut the door.       21   'Twas noon in Amsterdam, the day was clear,   And sunshine tipped the pointed roofs with gold.   The brown canals ran liquid bronze, for here   The sun sank deep into the waters cold.   And every clock and belfry in the town   Hammered, and struck, and rang.  Such peals of bells,   To shake the sunny morning into life,   And to proclaim the middle, and the crown,   Of this most sparkling daytime!  The crowd swells,   Laughing and pushing toward the quays in friendly strife.       22   The "Horn of Fortune" sails away to-day.   At highest tide she lets her anchor go,   And starts for China.  Saucy popinjay!   Giddy in freshest paint she curtseys low,   And beckons to her boats to let her start.   Blue is the ocean, with a flashing breeze.   The shining waves are quick to take her part.   They push and spatter her.  Her sails are loose,   Her tackles hanging, waiting men to seize   And haul them taut, with chanty-singing, as they choose.       23   At the great wharf's edge Mynheer Kurler stands,   And by his side, his daughter, young Christine.   Max Breuck is there, his hat held in his hands,   Bowing before them both.  The brigantine   Bounces impatient at the long delay,   Curvets and jumps, a cable's length from shore.   A heavy galliot unloads on the walls   Round, yellow cheeses, like gold cannon balls   Stacked on the stones in pyramids.  Once more   Kurler has kissed Christine, and now he is away.       24   Christine stood rigid like a frozen stone,   Her hands wrung pale in effort at control.   Max moved aside and let her be alone,   For grief exacts each penny of its toll.   The dancing boat tossed on the glinting sea.   A sun-path swallowed it in flaming light,   Then, shrunk a cockleshell, it came again   Upon the other side.  Now on the lee   It took the "Horn of Fortune".  Straining sight   Could see it hauled aboard, men pulling on the crane.       25   Then up above the eager brigantine,   Along her slender masts, the sails took flight,   Were sheeted home, and ropes were coiled.  The shine   Of the wet anchor, when its heavy weight   Rose splashing to the deck.  These things they saw,   Christine and Max, upon the crowded quay.   They saw the sails grow white, then blue in shade,   The ship had turned, caught in a windy flaw   She glided imperceptibly away,   Drew farther off and in the bright sky seemed to fade.       26   Home, through the emptying streets, Max took Christine,   Who would have hid her sorrow from his gaze.   Before the iron gateway, clasped between   Each garden wall, he stopped.  She, in amaze,   Asked, "Do you enter not then, Mynheer Breuck?   My father told me of your courtesy.   Since I am now your charge, 'tis meet for me   To show such hospitality as maiden may,   Without disdaining rules must not be broke.   Katrina will have coffee, and she bakes today."       27   She straight unhasped the tall, beflowered gate.   Curled into tendrils, twisted into cones   Of leaves and roses, iron infoliate,   It guards the pleasance, and its stiffened bones   Are budded with much peering at the rows,   And beds, and arbours, which it keeps inside.   Max started at the beauty, at the glare   Of tints.  At either end was set a wide   Path strewn with fine, red gravel, and such shows   Of tulips in their splendour flaunted everywhere!       28   From side to side, midway each path, there ran   A longer one which cut the space in two.   And, like a tunnel some magician   Has wrought in twinkling green, an alley grew,   Pleached thick and walled with apple trees; their flowers   Incensed the garden, and when Autumn came   The plump and heavy apples crowding stood   And tapped against the arbour.  Then the dame   Katrina shook them down, in pelting showers   They plunged to earth, and died transformed to sugared food.       29   Against the high, encircling walls were grapes,   Nailed close to feel the baking of the sun   From glowing bricks.  Their microscopic shapes   Half hidden by serrated leaves.  And one   Old cherry tossed its branches near the door.   Bordered along the wall, in beds between,   Flickering, streaming, nodding in the air,   The pride of all the garden, there were more   Tulips than Max had ever dreamed or seen.   They jostled, mobbed, and danced.  Max stood at helpless stare.       30   "Within the arbour, Mynheer Breuck, I'll bring   Coffee and cakes, a pipe, and Father's best   Tobacco, brought from countries harbouring   Dawn's earliest footstep.  Wait."  With girlish zest   To please her guest she flew.  A moment more   She came again, with her old nurse behind.   Then, sitting on the bench and knitting fast,   She talked as someone with a noble store   Of hidden fancies, blown upon the wind,   Eager to flutter forth and leave their silent past.       31   The little apple leaves above their heads   Let fall a quivering sunshine.  Quiet, cool,   In blossomed boughs they sat.  Beyond, the beds   Of tulips blazed, a proper vestibule   And antechamber to the rainbow.  Dyes   Of prismed richness:  Carmine.  Madder.  Blues   Tinging dark browns to purple.  Silvers flushed   To amethyst and tinct with gold.  Round eyes   Of scarlet, spotting tender saffron hues.   Violets sunk to blacks, and reds in orange crushed.       32   Of every pattern and in every shade.   Nacreous, iridescent, mottled, checked.   Some purest sulphur-yellow, others made   An ivory-white with disks of copper flecked.   Sprinkled and striped, tasselled, or keenest edged.   Striated, powdered, freckled, long or short.   They bloomed, and seemed strange wonder-moths new-fledged,   Born of the spectrum wedded to a flame.   The shade within the arbour made a port   To o'ertaxed eyes, its still, green twilight rest became.       33   Her knitting-needles clicked and Christine talked,   This child matured to woman unaware,   The first time left alone.  Now dreams once balked   Found utterance.  Max thought her very fair.   Beneath her cap her ornaments shone gold,   And purest gold they were.  Kurler was rich   And heedful.  Her old maiden aunt had died   Whose darling care she was.  Now, growing bold,   She asked, had Max a sister?  Dropped a stitch   At her own candour.  Then she paused and softly sighed.       34   Two years was long!  She loved her father well,   But fears she had not.  He had always been   Just sailed or sailing.  And she must not dwell   On sad thoughts, he had told her so, and seen   Her smile at parting.  But she sighed once more.   Two years was long; 'twas not one hour yet!   Mynheer Grootver she would not see at all.   Yes, yes, she knew, but ere the date so set,   The "Horn of Fortune" would be at the wall.   When Max had bid farewell, she watched him from the door.       35   The next day, and the next, Max went to ask   The health of Jufvrouw Kurler, and the news:   Another tulip blown, or the great task   Of gathering petals which the high wind strews;   The polishing of floors, the pictured tiles   Well scrubbed, and oaken chairs most deftly oiled.   Such things were Christine's world, and his was she   Winter drew near, his sun was in her smiles.   Another Spring, and at his law he toiled,   Unspoken hope counselled a wise efficiency.       36   Max Breuck was honour's soul, he knew himself   The guardian of this girl; no more, no less.   As one in charge of guineas on a shelf   Loose in a china teapot, may confess   His need, but may not borrow till his friend   Comes back to give.  So Max, in honour, said   No word of love or marriage; but the days   He clipped off on his almanac.  The end   Must come!  The second year, with feet of lead,   Lagged slowly by till Spring had plumped the willow sprays.       37   Two years had made Christine a woman grown,   With dignity and gently certain pride.   But all her childhood fancies had not flown,   Her thoughts in lovely dreamings seemed to glide.   Max was her trusted friend, did she confess   A closer happiness?  Max could not tell.   Two years were over and his life he found   Sphered and complete.  In restless eagerness   He waited for the "Horn of Fortune".  Well   Had he his promise kept, abating not one pound.       38   Spring slipped away to Summer.  Still no glass   Sighted the brigantine.  Then Grootver came   Demanding Jufvrouw Kurler.  His trespass   Was justified, for he had won the game.   Christine begged time, more time!  Midsummer went,   And Grootver waxed impatient.  Still the ship   Tarried.  Christine, betrayed and weary, sank   To dreadful terrors.  One day, crazed, she sent   For Max.  "Come quickly," said her note, "I skip   The worst distress until we meet.  The world is blank."       39   Through the long sunshine of late afternoon   Max went to her.  In the pleached alley, lost   In bitter reverie, he found her soon.   And sitting down beside her, at the cost   Of all his secret, "Dear," said he, "what thing   So suddenly has happened?"  Then, in tears,   She told that Grootver, on the following morn,   Would come to marry her, and shuddering:   "I will die rather, death has lesser fears."   Max felt the shackles drop from the oath which he had sworn.       40   "My Dearest One, the hid joy of my heart!   I love you, oh! you must indeed have known.   In strictest honour I have played my part;   But all this misery has overthrown   My scruples.  If you love me, marry me   Before the sun has dipped behind those trees.   You cannot be wed twice, and Grootver, foiled,   Can eat his anger.  My care it shall be   To pay your father's debt, by such degrees   As I can compass, and for years I've greatly toiled.       41   This is not haste, Christine, for long I've known   My love, and silence forced upon my lips.   I worship you with all the strength I've shown   In keeping faith."  With pleading finger tips   He touched her arm.  "Christine!  Beloved!  Think.   Let us not tempt the future.  Dearest, speak,   I love you.  Do my words fall too swift now?   They've been in leash so long upon the brink."   She sat quite still, her body loose and weak.   Then into him she melted, all her soul at flow.       42   And they were married ere the westering sun   Had disappeared behind the garden trees.   The evening poured on them its benison,   And flower-scents, that only night-time frees,   Rose up around them from the beamy ground,   Silvered and shadowed by a tranquil moon.   Within the arbour, long they lay embraced,   In such enraptured sweetness as they found   Close-partnered each to each, and thinking soon   To be enwoven, long ere night to morning faced.       43   At last Max spoke, "Dear Heart, this night is ours,   To watch it pale, together, into dawn,   Pressing our souls apart like opening flowers   Until our lives, through quivering bodies drawn,   Are mingled and confounded.  Then, far spent,   Our eyes will close to undisturbed rest.   For that desired thing I leave you now.   To pinnacle this day's accomplishment,   By telling Grootver that a bootless quest   Is his, and that his schemes have met a knock-down blow."       44   But Christine clung to him with sobbing cries,   Pleading for love's sake that he leave her not.   And wound her arms about his knees and thighs   As he stood over her.  With dread, begot   Of Grootver's name, and silence, and the night,   She shook and trembled.  Words in moaning plaint   Wooed him to stay.  She feared, she knew not why,   Yet greatly feared.  She seemed some anguished saint   Martyred by visions.  Max Breuck soothed her fright   With wisdom, then stepped out under the cooling sky.       45   But at the gate once more she held him close   And quenched her heart again upon his lips.   "My Sweetheart, why this terror?  I propose   But to be gone one hour!  Evening slips   Away, this errand must be done."  "Max!  Max!   First goes my father, if I lose you now!"   She grasped him as in panic lest she drown.   Softly he laughed, "One hour through the town   By moonlight!  That's no place for foul attacks.   Dearest, be comforted, and clear that troubled brow.       46   One hour, Dear, and then, no more alone.   We front another day as man and wife.   I shall be back almost before I'm gone,   And midnight shall anoint and crown our life."   Then through the gate he passed.  Along the street   She watched his buttons gleaming in the moon.   He stopped to wave and turned the garden wall.   Straight she sank down upon a mossy seat.   Her senses, mist-encircled by a swoon,   Swayed to unconsciousness beneath its wreathing pall.       47   Briskly Max walked beside the still canal.   His step was firm with purpose.  Not a jot   He feared this meeting, nor the rancorous gall   Grootver would spit on him who marred his plot.   He dreaded no man, since he could protect   Christine.  His wife!  He stopped and laughed aloud.   His starved life had not fitted him for joy.   It strained him to the utmost to reject   Even this hour with her.  His heart beat loud.   "Damn Grootver, who can force my time to this employ!"       48   He laughed again.  What boyish uncontrol   To be so racked.  Then felt his ticking watch.   In half an hour Grootver would know the whole.   And he would be returned, lifting the latch   Of his own gate, eager to take Christine   And crush her to his lips.  How bear delay?   He broke into a run.  In front, a line   Of candle-light banded the cobbled street.   Hilverdink's tavern!  Not for many a day   Had he been there to take his old, accustomed seat.       49   "Why, Max!  Stop, Max!"  And out they came pell-mell,   His old companions.  "Max, where have you been?   Not drink with us?  Indeed you serve us well!   How many months is it since we have seen   You here?  Jan, Jan, you slow, old doddering goat!   Here's Mynheer Breuck come back again at last,   Stir your old bones to welcome him.  Fie, Max.   Business!  And after hours!  Fill your throat;   Here's beer or brandy.  Now, boys, hold him fast.   Put down your cane, dear man.  What really vicious whacks!"       50   They forced him to a seat, and held him there,   Despite his anger, while the hideous joke   Was tossed from hand to hand.  Franz poured with care   A brimming glass of whiskey.  "Here, we've broke   Into a virgin barrel for you, drink!   Tut!  Tut!  Just hear him!  Married!  Who, and when?   Married, and out on business.  Clever Spark!   Which lie's the likeliest?  Come, Max, do think."   Swollen with fury, struggling with these men,   Max cursed hilarity which must needs have a mark.       51   Forcing himself to steadiness, he tried   To quell the uproar, told them what he dared   Of his own life and circumstance.  Implied   Most urgent matters, time could ill be spared.   In jesting mood his comrades heard his tale,   And scoffed at it.  He felt his anger more   Goaded and bursting;--"Cowards!  Is no one loth   To mock at duty--"  Here they called for ale,   And forced a pipe upon him.  With an oath   He shivered it to fragments on the earthen floor.       52   Sobered a little by his violence,   And by the host who begged them to be still,   Nor injure his good name, "Max, no offence,"   They blurted, "you may leave now if you will."   "One moment, Max," said Franz.  "We've gone too far.   I ask your pardon for our foolish joke.   It started in a wager ere you came.   The talk somehow had fall'n on drugs, a jar   I brought from China, herbs the natives smoke,   Was with me, and I thought merely to play a game.       53   Its properties are to induce a sleep   Fraught with adventure, and the flight of time   Is inconceivable in swiftness.  Deep   Sunken in slumber, imageries sublime   Flatter the senses, or some fearful dream   Holds them enmeshed.  Years pass which on the clock   Are but so many seconds.  We agreed   That the next man who came should prove the scheme;   And you were he.  Jan handed you the crock.   Two whiffs!  And then the pipe was broke, and you were freed."       54   "It is a lie, a damned, infernal lie!"   Max Breuck was maddened now.  "Another jest   Of your befuddled wits.  I know not why   I am to be your butt.  At my request   You'll choose among you one who'll answer for   Your most unseasonable mirth.  Good-night   And good-by,--gentlemen.  You'll hear from me."   But Franz had caught him at the very door,   "It is no lie, Max Breuck, and for your plight   I am to blame.  Come back, and we'll talk quietly.       55   You have no business, that is why we laughed,   Since you had none a few minutes ago.   As to your wedding, naturally we chaffed,   Knowing the length of time it takes to do   A simple thing like that in this slow world.   Indeed, Max, 'twas a dream.  Forgive me then.   I'll burn the drug if you prefer."  But Breuck   Muttered and stared,--"A lie."  And then he hurled,   Distraught, this word at Franz:  "Prove it.  And when   It's proven, I'll believe.  That thing shall be your work.       56   I'll give you just one week to make your case.   On August thirty-first, eighteen-fourteen,   I shall require your proof."  With wondering face   Franz cried, "A week to August, and fourteen   The year!  You're mad, 'tis April now.   April, and eighteen-twelve."  Max staggered, caught   A chair,--"April two years ago!  Indeed,   Or you, or I, are mad.  I know not how   Either could blunder so."  Hilverdink brought   "The Amsterdam Gazette", and Max was forced to read.       57   "Eighteen hundred and twelve," in largest print;   And next to it, "April the twenty-first."   The letters smeared and jumbled, but by dint   Of straining every nerve to meet the worst,   He read it, and into his pounding brain   Tumbled a horror.  Like a roaring sea   Foreboding shipwreck, came the message plain:   "This is two years ago!  What of Christine?"   He fled the cellar, in his agony   Running to outstrip Fate, and save his holy shrine.       58   The darkened buildings echoed to his feet   Clap-clapping on the pavement as he ran.   Across moon-misted squares clamoured his fleet   And terror-winged steps.  His heart began   To labour at the speed.  And still no sign,   No flutter of a leaf against the sky.   And this should be the garden wall, and round   The corner, the old gate.  No even line   Was this!  No wall!  And then a fearful cry   Shattered the stillness.  Two stiff houses filled the ground.       59   Shoulder to shoulder, like dragoons in line,   They stood, and Max knew them to be the ones   To right and left of Kurler's garden.  Spine   Rigid next frozen spine.  No mellow tones   Of ancient gilded iron, undulate,   Expanding in wide circles and broad curves,   The twisted iron of the garden gate,   Was there.  The houses touched and left no space   Between.  With glassy eyes and shaking nerves   Max gazed.  Then mad with fear, fled still, and left that place.       60   Stumbling and panting, on he ran, and on.   His slobbering lips could only cry, "Christine!   My Dearest Love!  My Wife!  Where are you gone?   What future is our past?  What saturnine,   Sardonic devil's jest has bid us live   Two years together in a puff of smoke?   It was no dream, I swear it!  In some star,   Or still imprisoned in Time's egg, you give   Me love.  I feel it.  Dearest Dear, this stroke   Shall never part us, I will reach to where you are."       61   His burning eyeballs stared into the dark.   The moon had long been set.  And still he cried:   "Christine!  My Love!  Christine!"  A sudden spark   Pricked through the gloom, and shortly Max espied   With his uncertain vision, so within   Distracted he could scarcely trust its truth,   A latticed window where a crimson gleam   Spangled the blackness, and hung from a pin,   An iron crane, were three gilt balls.  His youth   Had taught their meaning, now they closed upon his dream.       62   Softly he knocked against the casement, wide   It flew, and a cracked voice his business there   Demanded.  The door opened, and inside   Max stepped.  He saw a candle held in air   Above the head of a gray-bearded Jew.   "Simeon Isaacs, Mynheer, can I serve   You?"  "Yes, I think you can.  Do you keep arms?   I want a pistol."  Quick the old man grew   Livid.  "Mynheer, a pistol!  Let me swerve   You from your purpose.  Life brings often false alarms--"       63   "Peace, good old Isaacs, why should you suppose   My purpose deadly.  In good truth I've been   Blest above others.  You have many rows   Of pistols it would seem.  Here, this shagreen   Case holds one that I fancy.  Silvered mounts   Are to my taste.  These letters `C. D. L.'   Its former owner?  Dead, you say.  Poor Ghost!   'Twill serve my turn though--"  Hastily he counts   The florins down upon the table.  "Well,   Good-night, and wish me luck for your to-morrow's toast."       64   Into the night again he hurried, now   Pale and in haste; and far beyond the town   He set his goal.  And then he wondered how   Poor C. D. L. had come to die.  "It's grown   Handy in killing, maybe, this I've bought,   And will work punctually."  His sorrow fell   Upon his senses, shutting out all else.   Again he wept, and called, and blindly fought   The heavy miles away.  "Christine.  I'm well.   I'm coming.  My Own Wife!"  He lurched with failing pulse.       65   Along the dyke the keen air blew in gusts,   And grasses bent and wailed before the wind.   The Zuider Zee, which croons all night and thrusts   Long stealthy fingers up some way to find   And crumble down the stones, moaned baffled.  Here   The wide-armed windmills looked like gallows-trees.   No lights were burning in the distant thorps.   Max laid aside his coat.  His mind, half-clear,   Babbled "Christine!"  A shot split through the breeze.   The cold stars winked and glittered at his chilling corpse.Sancta Maria, Succurre Miseris   Dear Virgin Mary, far away,   Look down from Heaven while I pray.   Open your golden casement high,   And lean way out beyond the sky.   I am so little, it may be   A task for you to harken me.   O Lady Mary, I have bought   A candle, as the good priest taught.   I only had one penny, so   Old Goody Jenkins let it go.   It is a little bent, you see.   But Oh, be merciful to me!   I have not anything to give,   Yet I so long for him to live.   A year ago he sailed away   And not a word unto today.   I've strained my eyes from the sea-wall   But never does he come at all.   Other ships have entered port   Their voyages finished, long or short,   And other sailors have received   Their welcomes, while I sat and grieved.   My heart is bursting for his hail,   O Virgin, let me spy his sail.       _Hull down on the edge of a sun-soaked sea       Sparkle the bellying sails for me.       Taut to the push of a rousing wind       Shaking the sea till it foams behind,       The tightened rigging is shrill with the song:       "We are back again who were gone so long."_   One afternoon I bumped my head.   I sat on a post and wished I were dead   Like father and mother, for no one cared   Whither I went or how I fared.   A man's voice said, "My little lad,   Here's a bit of a toy to make you glad."   Then I opened my eyes and saw him plain,   With his sleeves rolled up, and the dark blue stain   Of tattooed skin, where a flock of quail   Flew up to his shoulder and met the tail   Of a dragon curled, all pink and green,   Which sprawled on his back, when it was seen.   He held out his hand and gave to me   The most marvellous top which could ever be.   It had ivory eyes, and jet-black rings,   And a red stone carved into little wings,   All joined by a twisted golden line,   And set in the brown wood, even and fine.   Forgive me, Lady, I have not brought   My treasure to you as I ought,   But he said to keep it for his sake   And comfort myself with it, and take   Joy in its spinning, and so I do.   It couldn't mean quite the same to you.   Every day I met him there,   Where the fisher-nets dry in the sunny air.   He told me stories of courts and kings,   Of storms at sea, of lots of things.   The top he said was a sort of sign   That something in the big world was mine.       _Blue and white on a sun-shot ocean.       Against the horizon a glint in motion.       Full in the grasp of a shoving wind,       Trailing her bubbles of foam behind,       Singing and shouting to port she races,       A flying harp, with her sheets and braces._   O Queen of Heaven, give me heed,   I am in very utmost need.   He loved me, he was all I had,   And when he came it made the sad   Thoughts disappear.  This very day   Send his ship home to me I pray.   I'll be a priest, if you want it so,   I'll work till I have enough to go   And study Latin to say the prayers   On the rosary our old priest wears.   I wished to be a sailor too,   But I will give myself to you.   I'll never even spin my top,   But put it away in a box.  I'll stop   Whistling the sailor-songs he taught.   I'll save my pennies till I have bought   A silver heart in the market square,   I've seen some beautiful, white ones there.   I'll give up all I want to do   And do whatever you tell me to.   Heavenly Lady, take away   All the games I like to play,   Take my life to fill the score,   Only bring him back once more!       _The poplars shiver and turn their leaves,       And the wind through the belfry moans and grieves.       The gray dust whirls in the market square,       And the silver hearts are covered with care       By thick tarpaulins.  Once again       The bay is black under heavy rain._   The Queen of Heaven has shut her door.   A little boy weeps and prays no more.After Hearing a Waltz by Bartok   But why did I kill him?  Why?  Why?    In the small, gilded room, near the stair?   My ears rack and throb with his cry,    And his eyes goggle under his hair,    As my fingers sink into the fair   White skin of his throat.  It was I!   I killed him!  My God!  Don't you hear?    I shook him until his red tongue   Hung flapping out through the black, queer,    Swollen lines of his lips.  And I clung    With my nails drawing blood, while I flung   The loose, heavy body in fear.   Fear lest he should still not be dead.    I was drunk with the lust of his life.   The blood-drops oozed slow from his head    And dabbled a chair.  And our strife    Lasted one reeling second, his knife   Lay and winked in the lights overhead.   And the waltz from the ballroom I heard,    When I called him a low, sneaking cur.   And the wail of the violins stirred    My brute anger with visions of her.    As I throttled his windpipe, the purr   Of his breath with the waltz became blurred.   I have ridden ten miles through the dark,    With that music, an infernal din,   Pounding rhythmic inside me.  Just Hark!    One!  Two!  Three!  And my fingers sink in    To his flesh when the violins, thin   And straining with passion, grow stark.   One!  Two!  Three!  Oh, the horror of sound!    While she danced I was crushing his throat.   He had tasted the joy of her, wound    Round her body, and I heard him gloat    On the favour.  That instant I smote.   One!  Two!  Three!  How the dancers swirl round!   He is here in the room, in my arm,    His limp body hangs on the spin   Of the waltz we are dancing, a swarm    Of blood-drops is hemming us in!    Round and round!  One!  Two!  Three!  And his sin   Is red like his tongue lolling warm.   One!  Two!  Three!  And the drums are his knell.    He is heavy, his feet beat the floor   As I drag him about in the swell    Of the waltz.  With a menacing roar,    The trumpets crash in through the door.   One!  Two!  Three! clangs his funeral bell.   One!  Two!  Three!  In the chaos of space    Rolls the earth to the hideous glee   Of death!  And so cramped is this place,    I stifle and pant.  One!  Two!  Three!    Round and round!  God!  'Tis he throttles me!   He has covered my mouth with his face!   And his blood has dripped into my heart!    And my heart beats and labours.  One!  Two!   Three!  His dead limbs have coiled every part    Of my body in tentacles.  Through    My ears the waltz jangles.  Like glue   His dead body holds me athwart.   One!  Two!  Three!  Give me air!  Oh!  My God!    One!  Two!  Three!  I am drowning in slime!   One!  Two!  Three!  And his corpse, like a clod,    Beats me into a jelly!  The chime,    One!  Two!  Three!  And his dead legs keep time.   Air!  Give me air!  Air!  My God!Clear, with Light, Variable Winds   The fountain bent and straightened itself   In the night wind,   Blowing like a flower.   It gleamed and glittered,   A tall white lily,   Under the eye of the golden moon.   From a stone seat,   Beneath a blossoming lime,   The man watched it.   And the spray pattered   On the dim grass at his feet.   The fountain tossed its water,   Up and up, like silver marbles.   Is that an arm he sees?   And for one moment   Does he catch the moving curve   Of a thigh?   The fountain gurgled and splashed,   And the man's face was wet.   Is it singing that he hears?   A song of playing at ball?   The moonlight shines on the straight column of water,   And through it he sees a woman,   Tossing the water-balls.   Her breasts point outwards,   And the nipples are like buds of peonies.   Her flanks ripple as she plays,   And the water is not more undulating   Than the lines of her body.   "Come," she sings, "Poet!   Am I not more worth than your day ladies,   Covered with awkward stuffs,   Unreal, unbeautiful?   What do you fear in taking me?   Is not the night for poets?   I am your dream,   Recurrent as water,   Gemmed with the moon!"   She steps to the edge of the pool   And the water runs, rustling, down her sides.   She stretches out her arms,   And the fountain streams behind her   Like an opened veil.        *    *    *    *    *   In the morning the gardeners came to their work.   "There is something in the fountain," said one.   They shuddered as they laid their dead master   On the grass.   "I will close his eyes," said the head gardener,   "It is uncanny to see a dead man staring at the sun."The Basket       I   The inkstand is full of ink, and the paper lies white and unspotted,   in the round of light thrown by a candle.  Puffs of darkness sweep into   the corners, and keep rolling through the room behind his chair.  The air   is silver and pearl, for the night is liquid with moonlight.   See how the roof glitters, like ice!   Over there, a slice of yellow cuts into the silver-blue, and beside it stand   two geraniums, purple because the light is silver-blue, to-night.   See!  She is coming, the young woman with the bright hair.   She swings a basket as she walks, which she places on the sill,   between the geranium stalks.  He laughs, and crumples his paper   as he leans forward to look.  "The Basket Filled with Moonlight",   what a title for a book!   The bellying clouds swing over the housetops.   He has forgotten the woman in the room with the geraniums.  He is beating   his brain, and in his eardrums hammers his heavy pulse.  She sits   on the window-sill, with the basket in her lap.  And tap!  She cracks a nut.   And tap!  Another.  Tap!  Tap!  Tap!  The shells ricochet upon the roof,   and get into the gutters, and bounce over the edge and disappear.   "It is very queer," thinks Peter, "the basket was empty, I'm sure.   How could nuts appear from the atmosphere?"   The silver-blue moonlight makes the geraniums purple, and the roof glitters   like ice.       II   Five o'clock.  The geraniums are very gay in their crimson array.   The bellying clouds swing over the housetops, and over the roofs goes Peter   to pay his morning's work with a holiday.   "Annette, it is I.  Have you finished?  Can I come?"   Peter jumps through the window.   "Dear, are you alone?"   "Look, Peter, the dome of the tabernacle is done.  This gold thread   is so very high, I am glad it is morning, a starry sky would have   seen me bankrupt.  Sit down, now tell me, is your story going well?"   The golden dome glittered in the orange of the setting sun.  On the walls,   at intervals, hung altar-cloths and chasubles, and copes, and stoles,   and coffin palls.  All stiff with rich embroidery, and stitched with   so much artistry, they seemed like spun and woven gems, or flower-buds   new-opened on their stems.   Annette looked at the geraniums, very red against the blue sky.   "No matter how I try, I cannot find any thread of such a red.   My bleeding hearts drip stuff muddy in comparison.  Heigh-ho!  See my little   pecking dove?  I'm in love with my own temple.  Only that halo's wrong.   The colour's too strong, or not strong enough.  I don't know.  My eyes   are tired.  Oh, Peter, don't be so rough; it is valuable.  I won't do   any more.  I promise.  You tyrannise, Dear, that's enough.  Now sit down   and amuse me while I rest."   The shadows of the geraniums creep over the floor, and begin to climb   the opposite wall.   Peter watches her, fluid with fatigue, floating, and drifting,   and undulant in the orange glow.  His senses flow towards her,   where she lies supine and dreaming.  Seeming drowned in a golden halo.   The pungent smell of the geraniums is hard to bear.   He pushes against her knees, and brushes his lips across her languid hands.   His lips are hot and speechless.  He woos her, quivering, and the room   is filled with shadows, for the sun has set.  But she only understands   the ways of a needle through delicate stuffs, and the shock of one colour   on another.  She does not see that this is the same, and querulously murmurs   his name.   "Peter, I don't want it.  I am tired."   And he, the undesired, burns and is consumed.   There is a crescent moon on the rim of the sky.       III   "Go home, now, Peter.  To-night is full moon.  I must be alone."   "How soon the moon is full again!  Annette, let me stay.  Indeed, Dear Love,   I shall not go away.  My God, but you keep me starved!  You write   `No Entrance Here', over all the doors.  Is it not strange, my Dear,   that loving, yet you deny me entrance everywhere.  Would marriage   strike you blind, or, hating bonds as you do, why should I be denied   the rights of loving if I leave you free?  You want the whole of me,   you pick my brains to rest you, but you give me not one heart-beat.   Oh, forgive me, Sweet!  I suffer in my loving, and you know it.  I cannot   feed my life on being a poet.  Let me stay."   "As you please, poor Peter, but it will hurt me if you do.  It will   crush your heart and squeeze the love out."   He answered gruffly, "I know what I'm about."   "Only remember one thing from to-night.  My work is taxing and I must   have sight!  I _must_!"   The clear moon looks in between the geraniums.  On the wall,   the shadow of the man is divided from the shadow of the woman   by a silver thread.   They are eyes, hundreds of eyes, round like marbles!  Unwinking, for there   are no lids.  Blue, black, gray, and hazel, and the irises are cased   in the whites, and they glitter and spark under the moon.  The basket   is heaped with human eyes.  She cracks off the whites and throws them away.   They ricochet upon the roof, and get into the gutters, and bounce   over the edge and disappear.  But she is here, quietly sitting   on the window-sill, eating human eyes.   The silver-blue moonlight makes the geraniums purple, and the roof shines   like ice.       IV   How hot the sheets are!  His skin is tormented with pricks,   and over him sticks, and never moves, an eye.  It lights the sky with blood,   and drips blood.  And the drops sizzle on his bare skin, and he smells them   burning in, and branding his body with the name "Annette".   The blood-red sky is outside his window now.  Is it blood or fire?   Merciful God!  Fire!  And his heart wrenches and pounds "Annette!"   The lead of the roof is scorching, he ricochets, gets to the edge,   bounces over and disappears.   The bellying clouds are red as they swing over the housetops.       V   The air is of silver and pearl, for the night is liquid with moonlight.   How the ruin glistens, like a palace of ice!  Only two black holes swallow   the brilliance of the moon.  Deflowered windows, sockets without sight.   A man stands before the house.  He sees the silver-blue moonlight,   and set in it, over his head, staring and flickering, eyes of geranium red.   Annette!In a Castle       I   Over the yawning chimney hangs the fog.  Drip--hiss--drip--hiss--   fall the raindrops on the oaken log which burns, and steams,   and smokes the ceiling beams.  Drip--hiss--the rain never stops.   The wide, state bed shivers beneath its velvet coverlet.  Above, dim,   in the smoke, a tarnished coronet gleams dully.  Overhead hammers and chinks   the rain.  Fearfully wails the wind down distant corridors, and there comes   the swish and sigh of rushes lifted off the floors.  The arras blows sidewise   out from the wall, and then falls back again.   It is my lady's key, confided with much nice cunning, whisperingly.   He enters on a sob of wind, which gutters the candles almost to swaling.   The fire flutters and drops.  Drip--hiss--the rain never stops.   He shuts the door.  The rushes fall again to stillness along the floor.   Outside, the wind goes wailing.   The velvet coverlet of the wide bed is smooth and cold.  Above,   in the firelight, winks the coronet of tarnished gold.  The knight shivers   in his coat of fur, and holds out his hands to the withering flame.   She is always the same, a sweet coquette.  He will wait for her.   How the log hisses and drips!  How warm and satisfying will be her lips!   It is wide and cold, the state bed; but when her head lies under the coronet,   and her eyes are full and wet with love, and when she holds out her arms,   and the velvet counterpane half slips from her, and alarms   her trembling modesty, how eagerly he will leap to cover her, and blot himself   beneath the quilt, making her laugh and tremble.   Is it guilt to free a lady from her palsied lord, absent and fighting,   terribly abhorred?   He stirs a booted heel and kicks a rolling coal.  His spur clinks   on the hearth.  Overhead, the rain hammers and chinks.  She is so pure   and whole.  Only because he has her soul will she resign herself to him,   for where the soul has gone, the body must be given as a sign.  He takes her   by the divine right of the only lover.  He has sworn to fight her lord,   and wed her after.  Should he be overborne, she will die adoring him, forlorn,   shriven by her great love.   Above, the coronet winks in the darkness.  Drip--hiss--fall the raindrops.   The arras blows out from the wall, and a door bangs in a far-off hall.   The candles swale.  In the gale the moat below plunges and spatters.   Will the lady lose courage and not come?   The rain claps on a loosened rafter.   Is that laughter?   The room is filled with lisps and whispers.  Something mutters.   One candle drowns and the other gutters.  Is that the rain   which pads and patters, is it the wind through the winding entries   which chatters?   The state bed is very cold and he is alone.  How far from the wall   the arras is blown!   Christ's Death!  It is no storm which makes these little chuckling sounds.   By the Great Wounds of Holy Jesus, it is his dear lady, kissing and   clasping someone!  Through the sobbing storm he hears her love take form   and flutter out in words.  They prick into his ears and stun his desire,   which lies within him, hard and dead, like frozen fire.  And the little noise   never stops.   Drip--hiss--the rain drops.   He tears down the arras from before an inner chamber's bolted door.       II   The state bed shivers in the watery dawn.  Drip--hiss--fall the raindrops.   For the storm never stops.   On the velvet coverlet lie two bodies, stripped and fair in the cold,   grey air.  Drip--hiss--fall the blood-drops, for the bleeding never stops.   The bodies lie quietly.  At each side of the bed, on the floor, is a head.   A man's on this side, a woman's on that, and the red blood oozes along   the rush mat.   A wisp of paper is twisted carefully into the strands of the dead man's hair.   It says, "My Lord:  Your wife's paramour has paid with his life   for the high favour."   Through the lady's silver fillet is wound another paper.  It reads,   "Most noble Lord:  Your wife's misdeeds are as a double-stranded   necklace of beads.  But I have engaged that, on your return,   she shall welcome you here.  She will not spurn your love as before,   you have still the best part of her.  Her blood was red, her body white,   they will both be here for your delight.  The soul inside was a lump of dirt,   I have rid you of that with a spurt of my sword point.  Good luck   to your pleasure.  She will be quite complaisant, my friend, I wager."   The end was a splashed flourish of ink.   Hark!  In the passage is heard the clink of armour, the tread of a heavy man.   The door bursts open and standing there, his thin hair wavering   in the glare of steely daylight, is my Lord of Clair.   Over the yawning chimney hangs the fog.  Drip--hiss--drip--hiss--   fall the raindrops.  Overhead hammers and chinks the rain which never stops.   The velvet coverlet is sodden and wet, yet the roof beams are tight.   Overhead, the coronet gleams with its blackened gold, winking and blinking.   Among the rushes three corpses are growing cold.       III   In the castle church you may see them stand,   Two sumptuous tombs on either hand   Of the choir, my Lord's and my Lady's, grand   In sculptured filigrees.  And where the transepts of the church expand,   A crusader, come from the Holy Land,   Lies with crossed legs and embroidered band.   The page's name became a brand   For shame.  He was buried in crawling sand,   After having been burnt by royal command.The Book of Hours of Sister Clotilde   The Bell in the convent tower swung.   High overhead the great sun hung,   A navel for the curving sky.   The air was a blue clarity.       Swallows flew,       And a cock crew.   The iron clanging sank through the light air,   Rustled over with blowing branches.  A flare   Of spotted green, and a snake had gone   Into the bed where the snowdrops shone       In green new-started,       Their white bells parted.   Two by two, in a long brown line,   The nuns were walking to breathe the fine   Bright April air.  They must go in soon   And work at their tasks all the afternoon.       But this time is theirs!       They walk in pairs.   First comes the Abbess, preoccupied   And slow, as a woman often tried,   With her temper in bond.  Then the oldest nun.   Then younger and younger, until the last one       Has a laugh on her lips,       And fairly skips.   They wind about the gravel walks   And all the long line buzzes and talks.   They step in time to the ringing bell,   With scarcely a shadow.  The sun is well       In the core of a sky       Domed silverly.   Sister Marguerite said:  "The pears will soon bud."   Sister Angelique said she must get her spud   And free the earth round the jasmine roots.   Sister Veronique said:  "Oh, look at those shoots!       There's a crocus up,       With a purple cup."   But Sister Clotilde said nothing at all,   She looked up and down the old grey wall   To see if a lizard were basking there.   She looked across the garden to where       A sycamore       Flanked the garden door.   She was restless, although her little feet danced,   And quite unsatisfied, for it chanced   Her morning's work had hung in her mind   And would not take form.  She could not find       The beautifulness       For the Virgin's dress.   Should it be of pink, or damasked blue?   Or perhaps lilac with gold shotted through?   Should it be banded with yellow and white   Roses, or sparked like a frosty night?       Or a crimson sheen       Over some sort of green?   But Clotilde's eyes saw nothing new   In all the garden, no single hue   So lovely or so marvellous   That its use would not seem impious.       So on she walked,       And the others talked.   Sister Elisabeth edged away   From what her companion had to say,   For Sister Marthe saw the world in little,   She weighed every grain and recorded each tittle.       She did plain stitching       And worked in the kitchen.   "Sister Radegonde knows the apples won't last,   I told her so this Friday past.   I must speak to her before Compline."   Her words were like dust motes in slanting sunshine.       The other nun sighed,       With her pleasure quite dried.   Suddenly Sister Berthe cried out:   "The snowdrops are blooming!"  They turned about.   The little white cups bent over the ground,   And in among the light stems wound       A crested snake,       With his eyes awake.   His body was green with a metal brightness   Like an emerald set in a kind of whiteness,   And all down his curling length were disks,   Evil vermilion asterisks,       They paled and flooded       As wounds fresh-blooded.   His crest was amber glittered with blue,   And opaque so the sun came shining through.   It seemed a crown with fiery points.   When he quivered all down his scaly joints,       From every slot       The sparkles shot.   The nuns huddled tightly together, fear   Catching their senses.  But Clotilde must peer   More closely at the beautiful snake,   She seemed entranced and eased.  Could she make       Colours so rare,       The dress were there.   The Abbess shook off her lethargy.   "Sisters, we will walk on," said she.   Sidling away from the snowdrop bed,   The line curved forwards, the Abbess ahead.       Only Clotilde       Was the last to yield.   When the recreation hour was done   Each went in to her task.  Alone   In the library, with its great north light,   Clotilde wrought at an exquisite       Wreath of flowers       For her Book of Hours.   She twined the little crocus blooms   With snowdrops and daffodils, the glooms   Of laurel leaves were interwoven   With Stars-of-Bethlehem, and cloven       Fritillaries,       Whose colour varies.   They framed the picture she had made,   Half-delighted and half-afraid.   In a courtyard with a lozenged floor   The Virgin watched, and through the arched door       The angel came       Like a springing flame.   His wings were dipped in violet fire,   His limbs were strung to holy desire.   He lowered his head and passed under the arch,   And the air seemed beating a solemn march.       The Virgin waited       With eyes dilated.   Her face was quiet and innocent,   And beautiful with her strange assent.   A silver thread about her head   Her halo was poised.  But in the stead       Of her gown, there remained       The vellum, unstained.   Clotilde painted the flowers patiently,   Lingering over each tint and dye.   She could spend great pains, now she had seen   That curious, unimagined green.       A colour so strange       It had seemed to change.   She thought it had altered while she gazed.   At first it had been simple green; then glazed   All over with twisting flames, each spot   A molten colour, trembling and hot,       And every eye       Seemed to liquefy.   She had made a plan, and her spirits danced.   After all, she had only glanced   At that wonderful snake, and she must know   Just what hues made the creature throw       Those splashes and sprays       Of prismed rays.   When evening prayers were sung and said,   The nuns lit their tapers and went to bed.   And soon in the convent there was no light,   For the moon did not rise until late that night,       Only the shine       Of the lamp at the shrine.   Clotilde lay still in her trembling sheets.   Her heart shook her body with its beats.   She could not see till the moon should rise,   So she whispered prayers and kept her eyes       On the window-square       Till light should be there.   The faintest shadow of a branch   Fell on the floor.  Clotilde, grown staunch   With solemn purpose, softly rose   And fluttered down between the rows       Of sleeping nuns.       She almost runs.   She must go out through the little side door   Lest the nuns who were always praying before   The Virgin's altar should hear her pass.   She pushed the bolts, and over the grass       The red moon's brim       Mounted its rim.   Her shadow crept up the convent wall   As she swiftly left it, over all   The garden lay the level glow   Of a moon coming up, very big and slow.       The gravel glistened.       She stopped and listened.   It was still, and the moonlight was getting clearer.   She laughed a little, but she felt queerer   Than ever before.  The snowdrop bed   Was reached and she bent down her head.       On the striped ground       The snake was wound.   For a moment Clotilde paused in alarm,   Then she rolled up her sleeve and stretched out her arm.   She thought she heard steps, she must be quick.   She darted her hand out, and seized the thick       Wriggling slime,       Only just in time.   The old gardener came muttering down the path,   And his shadow fell like a broad, black swath,   And covered Clotilde and the angry snake.   He bit her, but what difference did that make!       The Virgin should dress       In his loveliness.   The gardener was covering his new-set plants   For the night was chilly, and nothing daunts   Your lover of growing things.  He spied   Something to do and turned aside,       And the moonlight streamed       On Clotilde, and gleamed.   His business finished the gardener rose.   He shook and swore, for the moonlight shows   A girl with a fire-tongued serpent, she   Grasping him, laughing, while quietly       Her eyes are weeping.       Is he sleeping?   He thinks it is some holy vision,   Brushes that aside and with decision   Jumps--and hits the snake with his stick,   Crushes his spine, and then with quick,       Urgent command       Takes her hand.   The gardener sucks the poison and spits,   Cursing and praying as befits   A poor old man half out of his wits.   "Whatever possessed you, Sister, it's       Hatched of a devil       And very evil.   It's one of them horrid basilisks   You read about.  They say a man risks   His life to touch it, but I guess I've sucked it   Out by now.  Lucky I chucked it       Away from you.       I guess you'll do."   "Oh, no, Francois, this beautiful beast   Was sent to me, to me the least   Worthy in all our convent, so I   Could finish my picture of the Most High       And Holy Queen,       In her dress of green.   He is dead now, but his colours won't fade   At once, and by noon I shall have made   The Virgin's robe.  Oh, Francois, see   How kindly the moon shines down on me!       I can't die yet,       For the task was set."   "You won't die now, for I've sucked it away,"   Grumbled old Francois, "so have your play.   If the Virgin is set on snake's colours so strong,--"   "Francois, don't say things like that, it is wrong."       So Clotilde vented       Her creed.  He repented.   "He can't do no more harm, Sister," said he.   "Paint as much as you like."  And gingerly   He picked up the snake with his stick.  Clotilde   Thanked him, and begged that he would shield       Her secret, though itching       To talk in the kitchen.   The gardener promised, not very pleased,   And Clotilde, with the strain of adventure eased,   Walked quickly home, while the half-high moon   Made her beautiful snake-skin sparkle, and soon       In her bed she lay       And waited for day.   At dawn's first saffron-spired warning   Clotilde was up.  And all that morning,   Except when she went to the chapel to pray,   She painted, and when the April day       Was hot with sun,       Clotilde had done.   Done!  She drooped, though her heart beat loud   At the beauty before her, and her spirit bowed   To the Virgin her finely-touched thought had made.   A lady, in excellence arrayed,       And wonder-souled.       Christ's Blessed Mould!   From long fasting Clotilde felt weary and faint,   But her eyes were starred like those of a saint   Enmeshed in Heaven's beatitude.   A sudden clamour hurled its rude       Force to break       Her vision awake.   The door nearly leapt from its hinges, pushed   By the multitude of nuns.  They hushed   When they saw Clotilde, in perfect quiet,   Smiling, a little perplexed at the riot.       And all the hive       Buzzed "She's alive!"   Old Francois had told.  He had found the strain   Of silence too great, and preferred the pain   Of a conscience outraged.  The news had spread,   And all were convinced Clotilde must be dead.       For Francois, to spite them,       Had not seen fit to right them.   The Abbess, unwontedly trembling and mild,   Put her arms round Clotilde and wept, "My child,   Has the Holy Mother showed you this grace,   To spare you while you imaged her face?       How could we have guessed       Our convent so blessed!   A miracle!  But Oh!  My Lamb!   To have you die!  And I, who am   A hollow, living shell, the grave   Is empty of me.  Holy Mary, I crave       To be taken, Dear Mother,       Instead of this other."   She dropped on her knees and silently prayed,   With anguished hands and tears delayed   To a painful slowness.  The minutes drew   To fractions.  Then the west wind blew       The sound of a bell,       On a gusty swell.   It came skipping over the slates of the roof,   And the bright bell-notes seemed a reproof   To grief, in the eye of so fair a day.   The Abbess, comforted, ceased to pray.       And the sun lit the flowers       In Clotilde's Book of Hours.   It glistened the green of the Virgin's dress   And made the red spots, in a flushed excess,   Pulse and start; and the violet wings   Of the angel were colour which shines and sings.       The book seemed a choir       Of rainbow fire.   The Abbess crossed herself, and each nun   Did the same, then one by one,   They filed to the chapel, that incensed prayers   Might plead for the life of this sister of theirs.       Clotilde, the Inspired!       She only felt tired.        *    *    *    *    *   The old chronicles say she did not die   Until heavy with years.  And that is why   There hangs in the convent church a basket   Of osiered silver, a holy casket,       And treasured therein       A dried snake-skin.The Exeter Road   Panels of claret and blue which shine   Under the moon like lees of wine.   A coronet done in a golden scroll,   And wheels which blunder and creak as they roll   Through the muddy ruts of a moorland track.       They daren't look back!   They are whipping and cursing the horses.  Lord!   What brutes men are when they think they're scored.   Behind, my bay gelding gallops with me,   In a steaming sweat, it is fine to see   That coach, all claret, and gold, and blue,       Hop about and slue.   They are scared half out of their wits, poor souls.   For my lord has a casket full of rolls   Of minted sovereigns, and silver bars.   I laugh to think how he'll show his scars   In London to-morrow.  He whines with rage       In his varnished cage.   My lady has shoved her rings over her toes.   'Tis an ancient trick every night-rider knows.   But I shall relieve her of them yet,   When I see she limps in the minuet   I must beg to celebrate this night,       And the green moonlight.   There's nothing to hurry about, the plain   Is hours long, and the mud's a strain.   My gelding's uncommonly strong in the loins,   In half an hour I'll bag the coins.   'Tis a clear, sweet night on the turn of Spring.       The chase is the thing!   How the coach flashes and wobbles, the moon   Dripping down so quietly on it.  A tune   Is beating out of the curses and screams,   And the cracking all through the painted seams.   Steady, old horse, we'll keep it in sight.       'Tis a rare fine night!   There's a clump of trees on the dip of the down,   And the sky shimmers where it hangs over the town.   It seems a shame to break the air   In two with this pistol, but I've my share   Of drudgery like other men.       His hat?  Amen!   Hold up, you beast, now what the devil!   Confound this moor for a pockholed, evil,   Rotten marsh.  My right leg's snapped.   'Tis a mercy he's rolled, but I'm nicely capped.   A broken-legged man and a broken-legged horse!       They'll get me, of course.   The cursed coach will reach the town   And they'll all come out, every loafer grown   A lion to handcuff a man that's down.   What's that?  Oh, the coachman's bulleted hat!   I'll give it a head to fit it pat.       Thank you!  No cravat.   _They handcuffed the body just for style,   And they hung him in chains for the volatile   Wind to scour him flesh from bones.   Way out on the moor you can hear the groans   His gibbet makes when it blows a gale.       'Tis a common tale._The Shadow   Paul Jannes was working very late,   For this watch must be done by eight   To-morrow or the Cardinal   Would certainly be vexed.  Of all   His customers the old prelate   Was the most important, for his state   Descended to his watches and rings,   And he gave his mistresses many things   To make them forget his age and smile   When he paid visits, and they could while   The time away with a diamond locket   Exceedingly well.  So they picked his pocket,   And he paid in jewels for his slobbering kisses.   This watch was made to buy him blisses   From an Austrian countess on her way   Home, and she meant to start next day.   Paul worked by the pointed, tulip-flame   Of a tallow candle, and became   So absorbed, that his old clock made him wince   Striking the hour a moment since.   Its echo, only half apprehended,   Lingered about the room.  He ended   Screwing the little rubies in,   Setting the wheels to lock and spin,   Curling the infinitesimal springs,   Fixing the filigree hands.  Chippings   Of precious stones lay strewn about.   The table before him was a rout   Of splashes and sparks of coloured light.   There was yellow gold in sheets, and quite   A heap of emeralds, and steel.   Here was a gem, there was a wheel.   And glasses lay like limpid lakes   Shining and still, and there were flakes   Of silver, and shavings of pearl,   And little wires all awhirl   With the light of the candle.  He took the watch   And wound its hands about to match   The time, then glanced up to take the hour   From the hanging clock.                            Good, Merciful Power!   How came that shadow on the wall,   No woman was in the room!  His tall   Chiffonier stood gaunt behind   His chair.  His old cloak, rabbit-lined,   Hung from a peg.  The door was closed.   Just for a moment he must have dozed.   He looked again, and saw it plain.   The silhouette made a blue-black stain   On the opposite wall, and it never wavered   Even when the candle quavered   Under his panting breath.  What made   That beautiful, dreadful thing, that shade   Of something so lovely, so exquisite,   Cast from a substance which the sight   Had not been tutored to perceive?   Paul brushed his eyes across his sleeve.   Clear-cut, the Shadow on the wall   Gleamed black, and never moved at all.   Paul's watches were like amulets,   Wrought into patterns and rosettes;   The cases were all set with stones,   And wreathing lines, and shining zones.   He knew the beauty in a curve,   And the Shadow tortured every nerve   With its perfect rhythm of outline   Cutting the whitewashed wall.  So fine   Was the neck he knew he could have spanned   It about with the fingers of one hand.   The chin rose to a mouth he guessed,   But could not see, the lips were pressed   Loosely together, the edges close,   And the proud and delicate line of the nose   Melted into a brow, and there   Broke into undulant waves of hair.   The lady was edged with the stamp of race.   A singular vision in such a place.   He moved the candle to the tall   Chiffonier; the Shadow stayed on the wall.   He threw his cloak upon a chair,   And still the lady's face was there.   From every corner of the room   He saw, in the patch of light, the gloom   That was the lady.  Her violet bloom   Was almost brighter than that which came   From his candle's tulip-flame.   He set the filigree hands; he laid   The watch in the case which he had made;   He put on his rabbit cloak, and snuffed   His candle out.  The room seemed stuffed   With darkness.  Softly he crossed the floor,   And let himself out through the door.   The sun was flashing from every pin   And wheel, when Paul let himself in.   The whitewashed walls were hot with light.   The room was the core of a chrysolite,   Burning and shimmering with fiery might.   The sun was so bright that no shadow could fall   From the furniture upon the wall.   Paul sighed as he looked at the empty space   Where a glare usurped the lady's place.   He settled himself to his work, but his mind   Wandered, and he would wake to find   His hand suspended, his eyes grown dim,   And nothing advanced beyond the rim   Of his dreaming.  The Cardinal sent to pay   For his watch, which had purchased so fine a day.   But Paul could hardly touch the gold,   It seemed the price of his Shadow, sold.   With the first twilight he struck a match   And watched the little blue stars hatch   Into an egg of perfect flame.   He lit his candle, and almost in shame   At his eagerness, lifted his eyes.   The Shadow was there, and its precise   Outline etched the cold, white wall.   The young man swore, "By God!  You, Paul,   There's something the matter with your brain.   Go home now and sleep off the strain."   The next day was a storm, the rain   Whispered and scratched at the window-pane.   A grey and shadowless morning filled   The little shop.  The watches, chilled,   Were dead and sparkless as burnt-out coals.   The gems lay on the table like shoals   Of stranded shells, their colours faded,   Mere heaps of stone, dull and degraded.   Paul's head was heavy, his hands obeyed   No orders, for his fancy strayed.   His work became a simple round   Of watches repaired and watches wound.   The slanting ribbons of the rain   Broke themselves on the window-pane,   But Paul saw the silver lines in vain.   Only when the candle was lit   And on the wall just opposite   He watched again the coming of _it_,   Could he trace a line for the joy of his soul   And over his hands regain control.   Paul lingered late in his shop that night   And the designs which his delight   Sketched on paper seemed to be   A tribute offered wistfully   To the beautiful shadow of her who came   And hovered over his candle flame.   In the morning he selected all   His perfect jacinths.  One large opal   Hung like a milky, rainbow moon   In the centre, and blown in loose festoon   The red stones quivered on silver threads   To the outer edge, where a single, fine   Band of mother-of-pearl the line   Completed.  On the other side,   The creamy porcelain of the face   Bore diamond hours, and no lace   Of cotton or silk could ever be   Tossed into being more airily   Than the filmy golden hands; the time   Seemed to tick away in rhyme.   When, at dusk, the Shadow grew   Upon the wall, Paul's work was through.   Holding the watch, he spoke to her:   "Lady, Beautiful Shadow, stir   Into one brief sign of being.   Turn your eyes this way, and seeing   This watch, made from those sweet curves   Where your hair from your forehead swerves,   Accept the gift which I have wrought   With your fairness in my thought.   Grant me this, and I shall be   Honoured overwhelmingly."   The Shadow rested black and still,   And the wind sighed over the window-sill.   Paul put the despised watch away   And laid out before him his array   Of stones and metals, and when the morning   Struck the stones to their best adorning,   He chose the brightest, and this new watch   Was so light and thin it seemed to catch   The sunlight's nothingness, and its gleam.   Topazes ran in a foamy stream   Over the cover, the hands were studded   With garnets, and seemed red roses, budded.   The face was of crystal, and engraved   Upon it the figures flashed and waved   With zircons, and beryls, and amethysts.   It took a week to make, and his trysts   At night with the Shadow were his alone.   Paul swore not to speak till his task was done.   The night that the jewel was worthy to give.   Paul watched the long hours of daylight live   To the faintest streak; then lit his light,   And sharp against the wall's pure white   The outline of the Shadow started   Into form.  His burning-hearted   Words so long imprisoned swelled   To tumbling speech.  Like one compelled,   He told the lady all his love,   And holding out the watch above   His head, he knelt, imploring some   Littlest sign.                   The Shadow was dumb.   Weeks passed, Paul worked in fevered haste,   And everything he made he placed   Before his lady.  The Shadow kept   Its perfect passiveness.  Paul wept.   He wooed her with the work of his hands,   He waited for those dear commands   She never gave.  No word, no motion,   Eased the ache of his devotion.   His days passed in a strain of toil,   His nights burnt up in a seething coil.   Seasons shot by, uncognisant   He worked.  The Shadow came to haunt   Even his days.  Sometimes quite plain   He saw on the wall the blackberry stain   Of his lady's picture.  No sun was bright   Enough to dazzle that from his sight.   There were moments when he groaned to see   His life spilled out so uselessly,   Begging for boons the Shade refused,   His finest workmanship abused,   The iridescent bubbles he blew   Into lovely existence, poor and few   In the shadowed eyes.  Then he would curse   Himself and her!  The Universe!   And more, the beauty he could not make,   And give her, for her comfort's sake!   He would beat his weary, empty hands   Upon the table, would hold up strands   Of silver and gold, and ask her why   She scorned the best which he could buy.   He would pray as to some high-niched saint,   That she would cure him of the taint   Of failure.  He would clutch the wall   With his bleeding fingers, if she should fall   He could catch, and hold her, and make her live!   With sobs he would ask her to forgive   All he had done.  And broken, spent,   He would call himself impertinent;   Presumptuous; a tradesman; a nothing; driven   To madness by the sight of Heaven.   At other times he would take the things   He had made, and winding them on strings,   Hang garlands before her, and burn perfumes,   Chanting strangely, while the fumes   Wreathed and blotted the shadow face,   As with a cloudy, nacreous lace.   There were days when he wooed as a lover, sighed   In tenderness, spoke to his bride,   Urged her to patience, said his skill   Should break the spell.  A man's sworn will   Could compass life, even that, he knew.   By Christ's Blood!  He would prove it true!   The edge of the Shadow never blurred.   The lips of the Shadow never stirred.   He would climb on chairs to reach her lips,   And pat her hair with his finger-tips.   But instead of young, warm flesh returning   His warmth, the wall was cold and burning   Like stinging ice, and his passion, chilled,   Lay in his heart like some dead thing killed   At the moment of birth.  Then, deadly sick,   He would lie in a swoon for hours, while thick   Phantasmagoria crowded his brain,   And his body shrieked in the clutch of pain.   The crisis passed, he would wake and smile   With a vacant joy, half-imbecile   And quite confused, not being certain   Why he was suffering; a curtain   Fallen over the tortured mind beguiled   His sorrow.  Like a little child   He would play with his watches and gems, with glee   Calling the Shadow to look and see   How the spots on the ceiling danced prettily   When he flashed his stones.  "Mother, the green   Has slid so cunningly in between   The blue and the yellow.  Oh, please look down!"   Then, with a pitiful, puzzled frown,   He would get up slowly from his play   And walk round the room, feeling his way   From table to chair, from chair to door,   Stepping over the cracks in the floor,   Till reaching the table again, her face   Would bring recollection, and no solace   Could balm his hurt till unconsciousness   Stifled him and his great distress.   One morning he threw the street door wide   On coming in, and his vigorous stride   Made the tools on his table rattle and jump.   In his hands he carried a new-burst clump   Of laurel blossoms, whose smooth-barked stalks   Were pliant with sap.  As a husband talks   To the wife he left an hour ago,   Paul spoke to the Shadow.  "Dear, you know   To-day the calendar calls it Spring,   And I woke this morning gathering   Asphodels, in my dreams, for you.   So I rushed out to see what flowers blew   Their pink-and-purple-scented souls   Across the town-wind's dusty scrolls,   And made the approach to the Market Square   A garden with smells and sunny air.   I feel so well and happy to-day,   I think I shall take a Holiday.   And to-night we will have a little treat.   I am going to bring you something to eat!"   He looked at the Shadow anxiously.   It was quite grave and silent.  He   Shut the outer door and came   And leant against the window-frame.   "Dearest," he said, "we live apart   Although I bear you in my heart.   We look out each from a different world.   At any moment we may be hurled   Asunder.  They follow their orbits, we   Obey their laws entirely.   Now you must come, or I go there,   Unless we are willing to live the flare   Of a lighted instant and have it gone."   A bee in the laurels began to drone.   A loosened petal fluttered prone.   "Man grows by eating, if you eat   You will be filled with our life, sweet   Will be our planet in your mouth.   If not, I must parch in death's wide drouth   Until I gain to where you are,   And give you myself in whatever star   May happen.  O You Beloved of Me!   Is it not ordered cleverly?"   The Shadow, bloomed like a plum, and clear,   Hung in the sunlight.  It did not hear.   Paul slipped away as the dusk began   To dim the little shop.  He ran   To the nearest inn, and chose with care   As much as his thin purse could bear.   As rapt-souled monks watch over the baking   Of the sacred wafer, and through the making   Of the holy wine whisper secret prayers   That God will bless this labour of theirs;   So Paul, in a sober ecstasy,   Purchased the best which he could buy.   Returning, he brushed his tools aside,   And laid across the table a wide   Napkin.  He put a glass and plate   On either side, in duplicate.   Over the lady's, excellent   With loveliness, the laurels bent.   In the centre the white-flaked pastry stood,   And beside it the wine flask.  Red as blood   Was the wine which should bring the lustihood   Of human life to his lady's veins.   When all was ready, all which pertains   To a simple meal was there, with eyes   Lit by the joy of his great emprise,   He reverently bade her come,   And forsake for him her distant home.   He put meat on her plate and filled her glass,   And waited what should come to pass.   The Shadow lay quietly on the wall.   From the street outside came a watchman's call   "A cloudy night.  Rain beginning to fall."   And still he waited.  The clock's slow tick   Knocked on the silence.  Paul turned sick.   He filled his own glass full of wine;   From his pocket he took a paper.  The twine   Was knotted, and he searched a knife   From his jumbled tools.  The cord of life   Snapped as he cut the little string.   He knew that he must do the thing   He feared.  He shook powder into the wine,   And holding it up so the candle's shine   Sparked a ruby through its heart,   He drank it.  "Dear, never apart   Again!  You have said it was mine to do.   It is done, and I am come to you!"   Paul Jannes let the empty wine-glass fall,   And held out his arms.  The insentient wall   Stared down at him with its cold, white glare   Unstained!  The Shadow was not there!   Paul clutched and tore at his tightening throat.   He felt the veins in his body bloat,   And the hot blood run like fire and stones   Along the sides of his cracking bones.   But he laughed as he staggered towards the door,   And he laughed aloud as he sank on the floor.   The Coroner took the body away,   And the watches were sold that Saturday.   The Auctioneer said one could seldom buy   Such watches, and the prices were high.The Forsaken   Holy Mother of God, Merciful Mary.  Hear me!  I am very weary.  I have come   from a village miles away, all day I have been coming, and I ache for such   far roaming.  I cannot walk as light as I used, and my thoughts grow confused.   I am heavier than I was.  Mary Mother, you know the cause!   Beautiful Holy Lady, take my shame away from me!  Let this fear   be only seeming, let it be that I am dreaming.  For months I have hoped   it was so, now I am afraid I know.  Lady, why should this be shame,   just because I haven't got his name.  He loved me, yes, Lady, he did,   and he couldn't keep it hid.  We meant to marry.  Why did he die?   That day when they told me he had gone down in the avalanche, and could not   be found until the snow melted in Spring, I did nothing.  I could not cry.   Why should he die?  Why should he die and his child live?  His little child   alive in me, for my comfort.  No, Good God, for my misery!  I cannot face   the shame, to be a mother, and not married, and the poor child to be reviled   for having no father.  Merciful Mother, Holy Virgin, take away this sin I did.   Let the baby not be.  Only take the stigma off of me!   I have told no one but you, Holy Mary.  My mother would call me "whore",   and spit upon me; the priest would have me repent, and have   the rest of my life spent in a convent.  I am no whore, no bad woman,   he loved me, and we were to be married.  I carried him always in my heart,   what did it matter if I gave him the least part of me too?  You were a virgin,   Holy Mother, but you had a son, you know there are times when a woman   must give all.  There is some call to give and hold back nothing.   I swear I obeyed God then, and this child who lives in me is the sign.   What am I saying?  He is dead, my beautiful, strong man!  I shall never   feel him caress me again.  This is the only baby I shall have.   Oh, Holy Virgin, protect my baby!  My little, helpless baby!   He will look like his father, and he will be as fast a runner and as good   a shot.  Not that he shall be no scholar neither.  He shall go to school   in winter, and learn to read and write, and my father will teach him to carve,   so that he can make the little horses, and cows, and chamois,   out of white wood.  Oh, No!  No!  No!  How can I think such things,   I am not good.  My father will have nothing to do with my boy,   I shall be an outcast thing.  Oh, Mother of our Lord God, be merciful,   take away my shame!  Let my body be as it was before he came.   No little baby for me to keep underneath my heart for those long months.   To live for and to get comfort from.  I cannot go home and tell my mother.   She is so hard and righteous.  She never loved my father, and we were born   for duty, not for love.  I cannot face it.  Holy Mother, take my baby away!   Take away my little baby!  I don't want it, I can't bear it!   And I shall have nothing, nothing!  Just be known as a good girl.   Have other men want to marry me, whom I could not touch, after having known   my man.  Known the length and breadth of his beautiful white body,   and the depth of his love, on the high Summer Alp, with the moon above,   and the pine-needles all shiny in the light of it.  He is gone, my man,   I shall never hear him or feel him again, but I could not touch another.   I would rather lie under the snow with my own man in my arms!   So I shall live on and on.  Just a good woman.  With nothing to warm my heart   where he lay, and where he left his baby for me to care for.  I shall not be   quite human, I think.  Merely a stone-dead creature.  They will respect me.   What do I care for respect!  You didn't care for people's tongues   when you were carrying our Lord Jesus.  God had my man give me my baby,   when He knew that He was going to take him away.  His lips will comfort me,   his hands will soothe me.  All day I will work at my lace-making,   and all night I will keep him warm by my side and pray the blessed Angels   to cover him with their wings.  Dear Mother, what is it that sings?   I hear voices singing, and lovely silver trumpets through it all.  They seem   just on the other side of the wall.  Let me keep my baby, Holy Mother.   He is only a poor lace-maker's baby, with a stain upon him,   but give me strength to bring him up to be a man.Late September   Tang of fruitage in the air;   Red boughs bursting everywhere;   Shimmering of seeded grass;   Hooded gentians all a'mass.   Warmth of earth, and cloudless wind   Tearing off the husky rind,   Blowing feathered seeds to fall   By the sun-baked, sheltering wall.   Beech trees in a golden haze;   Hardy sumachs all ablaze,   Glowing through the silver birches.   How that pine tree shouts and lurches!   From the sunny door-jamb high,   Swings the shell of a butterfly.   Scrape of insect violins   Through the stubble shrilly dins.   Every blade's a minaret   Where a small muezzin's set,   Loudly calling us to pray   At the miracle of day.   Then the purple-lidded night   Westering comes, her footsteps light   Guided by the radiant boon   Of a sickle-shaped new moon.The Pike   In the brown water,   Thick and silver-sheened in the sunshine,   Liquid and cool in the shade of the reeds,   A pike dozed.   Lost among the shadows of stems   He lay unnoticed.   Suddenly he flicked his tail,   And a green-and-copper brightness   Ran under the water.   Out from under the reeds   Came the olive-green light,   And orange flashed up   Through the sun-thickened water.   So the fish passed across the pool,   Green and copper,   A darkness and a gleam,   And the blurred reflections of the willows on the opposite bank   Received it.The Blue Scarf   Pale, with the blue of high zeniths, shimmered over with silver, brocaded   In smooth, running patterns, a soft stuff, with dark knotted fringes,     it lies there,   Warm from a woman's soft shoulders, and my fingers close on it, caressing.   Where is she, the woman who wore it?  The scent of her lingers and drugs me!   A languor, fire-shotted, runs through me, and I crush the scarf down     on my face,   And gulp in the warmth and the blueness, and my eyes swim     in cool-tinted heavens.   Around me are columns of marble, and a diapered, sun-flickered pavement.   Rose-leaves blow and patter against it.  Below the stone steps a lute tinkles.   A jar of green jade throws its shadow half over the floor.  A big-bellied   Frog hops through the sunlight and plops in the gold-bubbled water of a basin,   Sunk in the black and white marble.  The west wind has lifted a scarf   On the seat close beside me, the blue of it is a violent outrage of colour.   She draws it more closely about her, and it ripples beneath     her slight stirring.   Her kisses are sharp buds of fire; and I burn back against her, a jewel   Hard and white; a stalked, flaming flower; till I break to     a handful of cinders,   And open my eyes to the scarf, shining blue in the afternoon sunshine.   How loud clocks can tick when a room is empty, and one is alone!White and Green   Hey!  My daffodil-crowned,   Slim and without sandals!   As the sudden spurt of flame upon darkness   So my eyeballs are startled with you,   Supple-limbed youth among the fruit-trees,   Light runner through tasselled orchards.   You are an almond flower unsheathed   Leaping and flickering between the budded branches.Aubade   As I would free the white almond from the green husk   So would I strip your trappings off,   Beloved.   And fingering the smooth and polished kernel   I should see that in my hands glittered a gem beyond counting.Music   The neighbour sits in his window and plays the flute.   From my bed I can hear him,   And the round notes flutter and tap about the room,   And hit against each other,   Blurring to unexpected chords.   It is very beautiful,   With the little flute-notes all about me,   In the darkness.   In the daytime,   The neighbour eats bread and onions with one hand   And copies music with the other.   He is fat and has a bald head,   So I do not look at him,   But run quickly past his window.   There is always the sky to look at,   Or the water in the well!   But when night comes and he plays his flute,   I think of him as a young man,   With gold seals hanging from his watch,   And a blue coat with silver buttons.   As I lie in my bed   The flute-notes push against my ears and lips,   And I go to sleep, dreaming.A Lady   You are beautiful and faded   Like an old opera tune   Played upon a harpsichord;   Or like the sun-flooded silks   Of an eighteenth-century boudoir.   In your eyes   Smoulder the fallen roses of out-lived minutes,   And the perfume of your soul   Is vague and suffusing,   With the pungence of sealed spice-jars.   Your half-tones delight me,   And I grow mad with gazing   At your blent colours.   My vigour is a new-minted penny,   Which I cast at your feet.   Gather it up from the dust,   That its sparkle may amuse you.In a Garden   Gushing from the mouths of stone men   To spread at ease under the sky   In granite-lipped basins,   Where iris dabble their feet   And rustle to a passing wind,   The water fills the garden with its rushing,   In the midst of the quiet of close-clipped lawns.   Damp smell the ferns in tunnels of stone,   Where trickle and plash the fountains,   Marble fountains, yellowed with much water.   Splashing down moss-tarnished steps   It falls, the water;   And the air is throbbing with it.   With its gurgling and running.   With its leaping, and deep, cool murmur.   And I wished for night and you.   I wanted to see you in the swimming-pool,   White and shining in the silver-flecked water.   While the moon rode over the garden,   High in the arch of night,   And the scent of the lilacs was heavy with stillness.   Night, and the water, and you in your whiteness, bathing!A Tulip Garden   Guarded within the old red wall's embrace,    Marshalled like soldiers in gay company,    The tulips stand arrayed.  Here infantry   Wheels out into the sunlight.  What bold grace   Sets off their tunics, white with crimson lace!    Here are platoons of gold-frocked cavalry,    With scarlet sabres tossing in the eye   Of purple batteries, every gun in place.    Forward they come, with flaunting colours spread,   With torches burning, stepping out in time    To some quick, unheard march.  Our ears are dead,   We cannot catch the tune.  In pantomime    Parades that army.  With our utmost powers    We hear the wind stream through a bed of flowers.[End of original text.]Notes:  After Hearing a Waltz by Bartok:    Originally:  After Hearing a Waltz by Bartok:  A Blockhead:    "There are non, ever.  As a monk who prays"      changed to:    "There are none, ever.  As a monk who prays"  A Tale of Starvation:    "And he neither eat nor drank."      changed to:    "And he neither ate nor drank."  The Great Adventure of Max Breuck:    Stanza headings were originally Roman Numerals.  The Book of Hours of Sister Clotilde:    The following names are presented in this etext sans accents:    Marguerite, Angelique, Veronique, Franc,ois.The following unconnected lines in the etext are presented sans accents:  The factory of Sevres had lent  Strange winged dragons writhe about   And rich perfumed smells  A faery moonshine washing pale the crowds  Our eyes will close to undisturbed rest.  And terror-winged steps.  His heart began      On the striped groundSome books by Amy Lowell:  Poetry:    A Critical Fable  * A Dome of Many-Coloured Glass (1912)  * Sword Blades and Poppy Seed (1914)  * Men, Women and Ghosts (1916)    Can Grande's Castle (1918)    Pictures of the Floating World (1919)    Legends (1921)    What's O'Clock (1925)    East Wind    Ballads For Sale  (In collaboration with Florence Ayscough)    Fir-Flower Tablets:  Poems Translated from the Chinese (1921)  Prose:    John Keats    Six French Poets:  Studies in Contemporary Literature (1915)    Tendencies in Modern American Poetry (1917)* Now available online from Project Gutenberg.About the author:From the notes to "The Second Book of Modern Verse" (1919, 1920),edited by Jessie B. Rittenhouse.Lowell, Amy.  Born in Brookline, Mass., Feb. 9, 1874. Educated atprivate schools.  Author of "A Dome of Many-Coloured Glass", 1912;"Sword Blades and Poppy Seed", 1914; "Men, Women and Ghosts", 1916; "CanGrande's Castle", 1918; "Pictures of the Floating World", 1919. Editorof the three successive collections of "Some Imagist Poets", 1915, '16,and '17, containing the early work of the "Imagist School" of which MissLowell became the leader.  This movement,... originated in England,the idea have been first conceived by a young poet named T. E. Hulme,but developed and put forth by Ezra Pound in an article called "Don'tsby an Imagist", which appeared in `Poetry; A Magazine of Verse'. ...A small group of poets gathered about Mr. Pound, experimenting along thetechnical lines suggested, and a cult of "Imagism" was formed, whosefirst group-expression was in the little volume, "Des Imagistes",published in New York in April, 1914. Miss Lowell did not come activelyinto the movement until after that time, but once she had entered it,she became its leader, and it was chiefly through her effort in Americathat the movement attained so much prominence and so influenced thetrend of poetry for the years immediately succeeding. Miss Lowell manytimes, in admirable articles, stated the principles upon which Imagismis based, notably in the Preface to "Some Imagist Poets" and in thePreface to the second series, in 1916.  She also elaborated it much morefully in her volume, "Tendencies in Modern American Poetry", 1917, inthe articles pertaining to the work of "H.D." and John Gould Fletcher.In her own creative work, however, Miss Lowell did most to establish thepossibilities of the Imagistic idea and of its modes of presentation,and opened up many interesting avenues of poetic form.  Her volume, "CanGrande's Castle", is devoted to work in the medium which she styled"Polyphonic Prose" and contains some of her finest work, particularly"The Bronze Horses".End of Project Gutenberg's Sword Blades and Poppy Seed, by Amy Lowell*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SWORD BLADES AND POPPY SEED ******** This file should be named 1020.txt or 1020.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/0/2/1020/Produced by Alan R. LightUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of Clementina, by A.E.W. MasonThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: ClementinaAuthor: A.E.W. MasonRelease Date: October 1, 2004 [EBook #13567]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CLEMENTINA ***Produced by Josephine Paolucci Joshua Hutchinson and the PG OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team.[Illustration: "'SIR,' SAID THE LADY IN ITALIAN, 'I NEED APOSTILLION.'"--_Page 2_.]ClementinaBy A.E.W. MasonAuthor of "The Courtship of Morrice Buckler" "Parson Kelly" etc.Illustrated by Bernard PartridgeNew YorkFrederick A. Stokes CompanyPublishers1901THIRD EDITIONUNIVERSITY PRESS JOHN WILSON AND SON, CAMBRIDGE, U.S.A.THIS BOOK IS DEDICATEDTOANDREW LANG, ESQ.AS A TOKEN OF MUCHFRIENDSHIPCONTENTSCHAPTER      I. A CHANCE MEETING     II. BAD NEWS    III. WOGAN MAKES A PROPOSAL     IV. SHOWS THAT THERE ARE BETTER HIDING-PLACES THAN A WINDOW-CURTAIN      V. SHOWS THAT A DISHONEST LANDLORD SHOULD AVOID WHITE PAINT     VI. WOGAN CONTINUES HIS JOURNEY    VII. WOGAN IS MISTAKEN FOR A MORE NOTABLE MAN   VIII. AT SCHLESTADT     IX. GAYDON MINDS HIS OWN BUSINESS      X. A MONTH OF WAITING     XI. THE PRINCE OF BADEN VISITS CLEMENTINA    XII. THE NIGHT OF THE 27TH. IN THE STREETS OF INNSPRUCK   XIII. THE NIGHT OF THE 27TH. IN CLEMENTINA'S APARTMENTS    XIV. THE ESCAPE     XV. THE FLIGHT TO ITALY: WOGAN'S CITY OF DREAMS    XVI. THE FLIGHT TO ITALY: THE POTENT EFFECTS OF A WATER-JUG   XVII. THE FLIGHT TO ITALY: A GROWING CLOUD  XVIII. WOGAN AND CLEMENTINA CONTINUE THEIR JOURNEY ALONE    XIX. THE ATTACK AT PERI     XX. THE GOD OF THE MACHINE DOES NOT APPEAR    XXI. COMPLICATIONS AT BOLOGNA   XXII. CLEMENTINA TAKES MR. WOGAN TO VISIT THE CAPRARA PALACE  XXIII. WOGAN LEARNS THAT HE HAS MEDDLED   XXIV. MARIA VITTORIA REAPPEARS    XXV. THE LAST         THE EPILOGUECLEMENTINACHAPTER IThe landlord, the lady, and Mr. Charles Wogan were all three, it seemed,in luck's way that September morning of the year 1719. Wogan was notsurprised, his luck for the moment was altogether in, so that even whenhis horse stumbled and went lame at a desolate part of the road fromFlorence to Bologna, he had no doubt but that somehow fortune wouldserve him. His horse stepped gingerly on for a few yards, stopped, andlooked round at his master. Wogan and his horse were on the best ofterms. "Is it so bad as that?" said he, and dismounting he gently feltthe strained leg. Then he took the bridle in his hand and walkedforward, whistling as he walked.Yet the place and the hour were most unlikely to give him succour. Itwas early morning, and he walked across an empty basin of the hills. Thesun was not visible, though the upper air was golden and the green peaksof the hills rosy. The basin itself was filled with a broad uncolouredlight, and lay naked to it and extraordinarily still. There were as yetno shadows; the road rose and dipped across low ridges of turf, aribbon of dead and unillumined white; and the grass at any distance fromthe road had the darkness of peat. He led his horse forward for perhapsa mile, and then turning a corner by a knot of trees came unexpectedlyupon a wayside inn. In front of the inn stood a travelling carriage withits team of horses. The backs of the horses smoked, and the candles ofthe lamps were still burning in the broad daylight. Mr. Wogan quickenedhis pace. He would beg a seat on the box to the next posting stage.Fortune had served him. As he came near he heard from the interior ofthe inn a woman's voice, not unmusical so much as shrill withimpatience, which perpetually ordered and protested. As he came nearerhe heard a man's voice obsequiously answering the protests, and as thesound of his footsteps rang in front of the inn both voices immediatelystopped. The door was flung hastily open, and the landlord and the ladyran out onto the road."Sir," said the lady in Italian, "I need a postillion."To Wogan's thinking she needed much more than a postillion. She neededcertainly a retinue of servants. He was not quite sure that she did notneed a nurse, for she was a creature of an exquisite fragility, with thepouting face of a child, and the childishness was exaggerated by a greatmuslin bow she wore at her throat. Her pale hair, where it showedbeneath her hood, was fine as silk and as glossy; her eyes had thecolour of an Italian sky at noon, and her cheeks the delicate tinge ofa carnation. The many laces and ribbons, knotted about her dress in amanner most mysterious to Wogan, added to her gossamer appearance; and,in a word, she seemed to him something too flowerlike for the world'srough usage."I must have a postillion," she continued."Presently, madam," said the landlord, smiling with all a Tuscanpeasant's desire to please. "In a minute. In less than a minute."He looked complacently about him as though at any moment now a crop ofpostillions might be expected to flower by the roadside. The lady turnedfrom him with a stamp of the foot and saw that Wogan was curiouslyregarding her carriage. A boy stood at the horses' heads, but his dressand sleepy face showed that he had not been half an hour out of bed, andthere was no one else. Wogan was wondering how in the world she hadtravelled as far as this inn. The lady explained."The postillion who drove me from Florence was drunk--oh, but drunk! Herolled off his horse just here, opposite the door. See, I beat him," andshe raised the beribboned handle of a toy-like cane. "But it was no use.I broke my cane over his back, but he would not get up. He crawled intothe passage where he lies."Wogan had some ado not to smile. Neither the cane nor the hand whichwielded it would be likely to interfere even with a sober man'sslumbers."And I must reach Bologna to-day," she cried in an extreme agitation."It is of the last importance.""Fortune is kind to us both, madam," said Wogan, with a bow. "My horseis lamed, as you see. I will be your charioteer, for I too am in adesperate hurry to reach Bologna."Immediately the lady drew back."Oh!" she said with a start, looking at Wogan.Wogan looked at her."Ah!" said he, thoughtfully.They eyed each other for a moment, each silently speculating what theother was doing alone at this hour and in such a haste to reach Bologna."You are English?" she said with a great deal of unconcern, and sheasked in English. That _she_ was English, Wogan already knew from heraccent. His Italian, however, was more than passable, and he was a waryman by nature as well as by some ten years' training in a service wherewariness was the first need, though it was seldom acquired. He couldhave answered "No" quite truthfully, being Irish. He preferred to answerher in Italian as though he had not understood."I beg your pardon. Yes, I will drive you to Bologna if the landlordwill swear to look after my horse." And he was very precise in hisdirections.The landlord swore very readily. His anxiety to be rid of his vociferousguest and to get back to bed was extreme. Wogan climbed into thepostillion's saddle, describing the while such remedies as he desiredto be applied to the sprained leg."The horse is a favourite?" asked the lady."Madam," said Wogan, with a laugh, "I would not lose that horse for allthe world, for the woman I shall marry will ride on it into my city ofdreams."The lady stared, as she well might. She hesitated with her foot upon thestep."Is he sober?" she asked of the landlord."Madam," said the landlord, unabashed, "in this district he is nicknamedthe water drinker.""You know him, then? He is Italian?""He is more. He is of Tuscany."The landlord had never seen Wogan in his life before, but the ladyseemed to wish some assurance on the point, so he gave it. He shut thecarriage door, and Wogan cracked his whip.The postillion's desires were of a piece with the lady's. They racedacross the valley, and as they climbed the slope beyond, the sun cameover the crests. One moment the dew upon the grass was like raindrops,the next it shone like polished jewels. The postillion shouted a welcometo the sun, and the lady proceeded to breakfast in her carriage. Woganhad to snatch a meal as best he could while the horses were changed atthe posting stage. The lady would not wait, and Wogan for his part wasused to a light fare. He drove into Bologna that afternoon.The lady put her head from the window and called out the name of astreet. Her postillion, however, paid no heed: he seemed suddenly tohave grown deaf; he whipped up his horses, shouted encouragements tothem and warnings to the pedestrians on the roads. The carriage rockedround corners and bounced over the uneven stones. Wogan had cleanforgotten the fragility of the traveller within. He saw men going busilyabout, talking in groups and standing alone, and all with consternationupon their faces. The quiet streets were alive with them. Something hadhappened that day in Bologna,--some catastrophe. Or news had come thatday,--bad news. Wogan did not stop to inquire. He drove at a gallopstraight to a long white house which fronted the street. The greenlatticed shutters were closed against the sun, but there were servantsabout the doorway, and in their aspect, too, there was something ofdisorder. Wogan called to one of them, jumped down from his saddle, andran through the open doorway into a great hall with frescoed walls allruined by neglect. At the back of the hall a marble staircase, guardedby a pair of marble lions, ran up to a landing and divided. Wogan setfoot on the staircase and heard an exclamation of surprise. He lookedup. A burly, good-humoured man in the gay embroideries of a courtier wasdescending towards him."You?" cried the courtier. "Already?" and then laughed. He was the onlyman whom Wogan had seen laugh since he drove into Bologna, and he drew agreat breath of hope."Then nothing has happened, Whittington? There is no bad news?""There is news so bad, my friend, that you might have jogged here on amule and still have lost no time. Your hurry is clean wasted," answeredWhittington.Wogan ran past him up the stairs, and so left the hall and the opendoorway clear. Whittington looked now straight through the doorway, andsaw the carriage and the lady on the point of stepping down onto thekerb. His face assumed a look of extreme surprise. Then he glanced upthe staircase after Wogan and laughed as though the conjunction of thelady and Mr. Wogan was a rare piece of amusement. Mr. Wogan did not hearthe laugh, but the lady did. She raised her head, and at the same momentthe courtier came across the hall to meet her. As soon as he had comeclose, "Harry," said she, and gave him her hand.He bent over it and kissed it, and there was more than courtesy in thewarmth of the kiss."But I'm glad you've come. I did not look for you for another week," hesaid in a low voice. He did not, however, offer to help her to alight."This is your lodging?" she asked."No," said he, "the King's;" and the woman shrank suddenly back amongsther cushions. In a moment, however, her face was again at the door."Then who was he,--my postillion?""Your postillion?" asked Whittington, glancing at the servant who heldthe horses."Yes, the tall man who looked as if he should have been a scholar andhad twisted himself all awry into a soldier. You must have passed him inthe hall."Whittington stared at her. Then he burst again into a laugh."Your postillion, was he? That's the oddest thing," and he lowered hisvoice. "Your postillion was Mr. Charles Wogan, who comes from Romepost-haste with the Pope's procuration for the marriage. You have helpedhim on his way, it seems. Here's a good beginning, to be sure."The lady uttered a little cry of anger, and her face hardened out of allits softness. She clenched her fists viciously, and her blue eyes grewcold and dangerous as steel. At this moment she hardly looked thedelicate flower she had appeared to Wogan's fancy."But you need not blame yourself," said Whittington, and he lowered hishead to a level with hers. "All the procurations in Christendom will notmarry James Stuart to Clementina Sobieski.""She has not come, then?""No, nor will she come. There is news to-day. Lean back from the window,and I will tell you. She has been arrested at Innspruck."The lady could not repress a crow of delight."Hush," said Whittington. Then he withdrew his head and resumed in hisordinary voice, "I have hired a house for your Ladyship, which I trustwill be found convenient. My servant will drive you thither."He summoned his servant from the group of footmen about the entrance,gave him his orders, bowed to the ground, and twisting his canesauntered idly down the street.CHAPTER IIWogan mounted the stairs, not daring to speculate upon the nature of thebad news. But his face was pale beneath its sunburn, and his handtrembled on the balustrade; for he knew--in his heart he knew. Therecould be only one piece of news which would make his haste or tardinessmatters of no account.Both branches of the stairs ran up to a common landing, and in the wallfacing him, midway between the two stairheads, was a great door of tulipwood. An usher stood by the door, and at Wogan's approach opened it.Wogan, however, signed to him to be silent. He wished to hear, not tospeak, and so he slipped into the room unannounced. The door was closedsilently behind him, and at once he was surprised by the remarkablesilence, almost a cessation of life it seemed, in a room which was quitefull. Wherever the broad bars of sunshine fell, as they slanted dustywith motes through the open lattices of the shutters, they striped awoman's dress or a man's velvet coat. Yet if anyone shuffled a foot orallowed a petticoat to rustle, that person glanced on each sideguiltily. A group of people were gathered in front of the doorway. Theirbacks were towards Wogan, and they were looking towards the centre ofthe room. Wogan raised himself on his toes and looked that way too.Having looked he sank down again, aware at once that he had travelled oflate a long way in a little time, and that he was intolerably tired. Forthat one glance was enough to deprive him of his last possibility ofdoubt. He had seen the Chevalier de St. George, his King, sitting apartin a little open space, and over against him a short squarish man, dustyas Wogan himself, who stood and sullenly waited. It was Sir John Hay,the man who had been sent to fetch the Princess Clementina privately toBologna, and here he now was back at Bologna and alone.Wogan had counted much upon this marriage, more indeed than any of hiscomrades. It was to be the first step of the pedestal in the building upof a throne. It was to establish in Europe a party for James Stuart asstrong as the party of Hanover. But so much was known to everyone inthat room; to Wogan the marriage meant more. For even while he foundhimself muttering over and over with dry lips, as white and exhausted heleaned against the door, Clementina's qualifications,--"Daughter of theKing of Poland, cousin to the Emperor and to the King of Portugal, nieceto the Electors of Treves, Bavaria, and Palatine,"--the image of thegirl herself rose up before his eyes and struck her titles from histhoughts. She was the chosen woman, chosen by him out of all Europe--andlost by John Hay!He remembered very clearly at that moment his first meeting with her.He had travelled from court to court in search of the fitting wife, andhad come at last to the palace at Ohlau in Silesia. It was in the duskof the evening, and as he was ushered into the great stone hall, hungabout and carpeted with barbaric skins, he had seen standing by theblazing wood fire in the huge chimney a girl in a riding dress. Sheraised her head, and the firelight struck upwards on her face, adding awarmth to its bright colours and a dancing light to the depths of herdark eyes. Her hair was drawn backwards from her forehead, and thefrank, sweet face revealed to him from the broad forehead to the roundedchin told him that here was one who joined to a royal dignity the simplenature of a peasant girl who works in the fields and knows more ofanimals than of mankind. Wogan was back again in that stone hall whenthe voice of the Chevalier with its strong French accent broke in uponhis vision."Well, we will hear the story. Well, you left Ohlau with the Princessand her mother and a mile-long train of servants in spite of my commandsof secrecy."There was more anger and less despondency than was often heard in hisvoice. Wogan raised himself again on tiptoes and noticed that theChevalier's face was flushed and his eyes bright with wrath."Sir," pleaded Hay, "the Princess's mother would not abate a man.""Well, you reached Ratisbon. And there?""There the English minister came forward from the town to flout us withan address of welcome in which he used not our incognitos but our truenames.""From Ratisbon then no doubt you hurried? Since you were discovered, youshed your retinue and hurried?""Sir, we hurried--to Augsburg," faltered Hay. He stopped, and then in aburst of desperation he said, "At Augsburg we stayed eight days.""Eight days?"There was a stir throughout the room; a murmur began and ceased. Woganwiped his forehead and crushed his handkerchief into a hard ball in hispalm. It seemed to him that here in this room he could see the PrincessClementina's face flushed with the humiliation of that loitering."And why eight days in Augsburg?""The Princess's mother would have her jewels reset. Augsburg is famousfor its jewellers," stammered Hay.The murmur rose again; it became almost a cry of stupefaction. TheChevalier sprang from his chair. "Her jewels reset!" he said. Herepeated the words in bewilderment. "Her jewels reset!" Then he droppedagain into his seat."I lose a wife, gentlemen, and very likely a kingdom too, so that a ladymay have her jewels reset at Augsburg, where, to be sure, there arefamous jewellers."His glance, wandering in a dazed way about the room, settled again onHay. He stamped his foot on the ground in a feverish irritation."And those eight days gave just the time for a courier from the Emperorat Vienna to pass you on the road and not press his horse. One should beglad of that. It would have been a pity had the courier killed hishorse. Oh, I can fashion the rest of the story for myself. You trailedon to Innspruck, where the Governor marched out with a troop and herdedyou in. They let _you_ go, however. No doubt they bade you hurry back tome.""Sir, I did hurry," said Hay, who was now in a pitiable confusion. "Itravelled hither without rest."The anger waned in the Chevalier's eyes as he heard the plea, and agreat dejection crept over his face."Yes, you would do that," said he. "That would be the time for you tohurry with a pigeon's swiftness so that your King might taste his bitternews not a minute later than need be. And what said she upon herarrest?""The Princess's mother?" asked Hay, barely aware of what he said."No. Her Highness, the Princess Clementina. What said she?""Sir, she covered her face with her hands for perhaps the space of aminute. Then she leaned forward to the Governor, who stood by hercarriage, and cried, 'Shut four walls about me quick! I could sink intothe earth for shame.'"Wogan in those words heard her voice as clearly as he saw her face andthe dry lips between which the voice passed. He had it in his heart tocry aloud, to send the words ringing through that hushed room, "Shewould have tramped here barefoot had she had one guide with a spirit tomatch hers." For a moment he almost fancied that he had spoken them, andthat he heard the echo of his voice vibrating down to silence. But hehad not, and as he realised that he had not, a new thought occurred tohim. No one had remarked his entrance into the room. The group in frontstill stood with their backs towards him. Since his entrance no one hadremarked his presence. At once he turned and opened the door so gentlythat there was not so much as a click of the latch. He opened it justwide enough for himself to slip through, and he closed it behind himwith the same caution. On the landing there was only the usher. Woganlooked over the balustrade; there was no one in the hall below."You can keep a silent tongue," he said to the usher. "There's profit init;" and Wogan put his hand into his pocket. "You have not seen me ifany ask.""Sir," said the man, "any bright object disturbs my vision.""You can see a crown, though," said Wogan."Through a breeches pocket. But if I held it in my hand--""It would dazzle you.""So much that I should be blind to the giver."The crown was offered and taken.Wogan went quietly down the stairs into the hall. There were a fewlackeys at the door, but they would not concern themselves at allbecause Mr. Wogan had returned to Bologna. He looked carefully out intothe street, chose a moment when it was empty, and hurried across it. Hedived into the first dark alley that he came to, and following the wyndsand byways of the town made his way quickly to his lodging. He had thekey to his door in his pocket, and he now kept it ready in his hand.From the shelter of a corner he watched again till the road was clear;he even examined the windows of the neighbouring houses lest somewhere apair of eyes might happen to be alert. Then he made a run for his door,opened it without noise, and crept secretly as a thief up the stairs tohis rooms, where he had the good fortune to find his servant. Wogan hadno need to sign to him to be silent. The man was a veteran corporal ofFrench Guards who after many seasons of campaigning in Spain and the LowCountries had now for five years served Mr. Wogan. He looked at hismaster and without a word went off to make his bed.Wogan sat down and went carefully over in his mind every minute of thetime since he had entered Bologna. No one had noticed him when he rodein as the lady's postillion,--no one. He was sure of that. The ladyherself did not know him from Adam, and fancied him an Italian into thebargain--of that, too, he had no doubt. The handful of lackeys at thedoor of the King's house need not be taken into account. They mightgossip among themselves, but Wogan's appearances and disappearances wereso ordinary a matter, even that was unlikely. The usher's silence he hadalready secured. There was only one acquaintance who had met and spokenwith him, and that by the best of good fortune was HarryWhittington,--the idler who took his banishment and his King'smisfortunes with an equally light heart, and gave never a thought at allto anything weightier than a gamecock.Wogan's spirits revived. He had not yet come to the end of his luck. Hesat down and wrote a short letter and sealed it up."Marnier," he called out in a low voice, and his servant came from theadjoining room, "take this to Mr. Edgar, the King's secretary, as soonas it grows dusk. Have a care that no one sees you deliver it. Lock theparlour door when you go, and take the key. I am not yet back fromRome." With that Wogan remembered that he had not slept for forty-eighthours. Within two minutes he was between the sheets; within five he wasasleep.CHAPTER IIIWogan waked up in the dark and was seized with a fear that he had slepttoo long. He jumped out of bed and pushed open the door of his parlour.There was a lighted lamp in the room, and Marnier was quietly laying hismaster's supper."At what hour?" asked Wogan."Ten o'clock, monsieur, at the little postern in the garden wall.""And the time now?""Nine."Wogan dressed with some ceremony, supped, and at eight minutes to tenslipped down the stairs and out of doors. He had crushed his hat downupon his forehead and he carried his handkerchief at his face. But thestreets were dark and few people were abroad. At a little distance tohis left he saw above the housetops a glow of light in the air whichmarked the Opera-House. Wogan avoided it; he kept again to the alleysand emerged before the Chevalier's lodging. This he passed, but ahundred yards farther on he turned down a side street and doubled backupon his steps along a little byway between small houses. The line ofhouses, however, at one point was broken by a garden wall. Under thiswall Wogan waited until a clock struck ten, and while the clock wasstill striking he heard on the other side of the wall the brushing offootsteps amongst leaves and grass. Wogan tapped gently on a little doorin the wall. It was opened no less gently, and Edgar the secretaryadmitted him, led him across the garden and up a narrow flight of stairsinto a small lighted cabinet. Two men were waiting in that room. One ofthem wore the scarlet robe, an old man with white hair and a broadbucolic face, whom Wogan knew for the Pope's Legate, Cardinal Origo. Theslender figure of the other, clad all in black but for the blue ribbonof the Garter across his breast, brought Wogan to his knee.Wogan held out the Pope's procuration to the Chevalier, who took it anddevoutly kissed the signature. Then he gave his hand to Wogan with asmile of friendliness."You have outsped your time by two days, Mr. Wogan. That is unwise,since it may lead us to expect again the impossible of you. But here,alas, your speed for once brings us no profit. You have heard, no doubt.Her Highness the Princess Clementina is held at Innspruck in prison."Wogan rose to his feet."Prisons, sir," he said quietly, "have been broken before to-day. Imyself was once put to that necessity." The words took the Chevaliercompletely by surprise. He leaned back in his chair and stared at Wogan."An army could not rescue her," he said."No, but one man might.""You?" he exclaimed. He pressed down the shade of the lamp to throw thelight fully upon Wogan's face. "It is impossible!""Then I beg your Majesty to expect the impossible again."The Chevalier drew his hand across his eyes and stared afresh at Wogan.The audacity of the exploit and the imperturbable manner of its proposalcaught his breath away. He rose from his chair and took a turn or twoacross the room.Wogan watched his every gesture. It would be difficult he knew to wringthe permission he needed from his dejected master, and his unruffleddemeanour was a calculated means of persuasion. An air of confidence wasthe first requisite. In reality, however, Wogan was not troubled at thismoment by any thought of failure. It was not that he had any plan in hishead; but he was fired with a conviction that somehow this chosen womanwas not to be wasted, that some day, released by some means in spite ofall the pressure English Ministers could bring upon the Emperor, shewould come riding into Bologna.The Chevalier paused in his walk and looked towards the Cardinal."What does your Eminence say?""That to the old the impulsiveness of youth is eternally charming," saidthe Cardinal, with a foppish delicacy of speaking in an odd contrast tohis person.Mr. Wogan understood that he had a second antagonist."I am not a youth, your Eminence," he exclaimed with all the indignationof twenty-seven years. "I am a man.""But an Irishman, and that spells youth. You write poetry too, Ibelieve, Mr. Wogan. It is a heady practice."Wogan made no answer, though the words stung. An argument with theCardinal would be sure to ruin his chance of obtaining the Chevalier'sconsent. He merely bowed to the Cardinal and waited for the Chevalier tospeak."Look you, Mr. Wogan; while the Emperor's at war with Spain, whileEngland's fleet could strip him of Sicily, he's England's henchman. Hedare not let the Princess go. We know it. General Heister, the Governorof Innspruck, is under pain of death to hold her safe.""But, sir, would the world stop if General Heister died?""A German scaffold if you fail.""In the matter of scaffolds I have no leaning towards any onenationality."The Cardinal smiled. He liked a man of spirit, though he might think himabsurd. The Chevalier resumed his restless pacing to and fro."It is impossible."But he seemed to utter the phrase with less decision this second time.Wogan pressed his advantage at the expense of his modesty."Sir, will you allow me to tell you a story,--a story of an impossibleescape from Newgate in the heart of London by a man in fetters? Therewere nine grenadiers with loaded muskets standing over him. There weretwo courtyards to cross, two walls to climb, and beyond the walls theunfriendly streets. The man hoodwinked his sentries, climbed his twowalls, crossed the unfriendly streets, and took refuge in a cellar,where he was discovered. From the cellar in broad daylight he fought hisway to the roofs, and on the roofs he played such a game ofhide-and-seek among the chimney-tops--" Wogan broke off from his storywith a clear thrill of laughter; it was a laugh of enjoyment at apleasing recollection. Then he suddenly flung himself down on his kneeat the feet of his sovereign. "Give me leave, your Majesty," he criedpassionately. "Let me go upon this errand. If I fail, if the scaffold'sdressed for me, why where's the harm? Your Majesty loses one servant outof his many. Whereas, if I win--" and he drew a long breath. "Aye, and Ishall win! There's the Princess, too, a prisoner. Sir, she has venturedmuch. I beg you give me leave."The Chevalier laid his hand gently upon Wogan's shoulder, but he did notassent. He looked again doubtfully to the Cardinal, who said with hispleasant smile, "I will wager Mr. Wogan a box at the Opera on the firstnight that he returns, that he will return empty-handed."Wogan rose to his feet and replied good-humouredly, "It's a wager Itake the more readily in that your Eminence cannot win, though you maylose. For if I return empty-handed, upon my honour I'll not return atall."The Cardinal condescended to laugh. Mr. Wogan laughed too. He had goodreason, for here was his Eminence in a kindly temper and the Chevalierwarming out of his melancholy. And, indeed, while he was still laughingthe Chevalier caught him by the arm as a friend might do, and in anoutburst of confidence, very rare with him, he said, "I would that Icould laugh so. You and Whittington, I do envy you. An honest laugh,there's the purge for melancholy. But I cannot compass it," and heturned away."Sure, sir, you'll put us all to shame when I bring her Royal Highnessout of Innspruck.""Oh, that!" said the Chevalier, as though for the moment he hadforgotten. "It is impossible," and the phrase was spoken now in anaccent of hesitation. Moreover, he sat down at a table, and drawing asheet of paper written over with memoranda, he began to read aloud witha glance towards Wogan at the end of each sentence."The house stands in the _faubourgs_ of Innspruck. There is an avenue oftrees in front of the house; on the opposite side of the avenue there isa tavern with the sign of 'The White Chamois.'"Wogan committed the words to memory."The Princess and her mother," continued the Chevalier, "are imprisonedin the east side of the house.""And how guarded, sir?" asked Wogan.The Chevalier read again from his paper."A sentry at each door, a third beneath the prisoners' windows. Theykeep watch night and day. Besides, twice a day the magistrate visits thehouse.""At what hours?""At ten in the morning. The same hour at night.""And on each visit the magistrate sees the Princess?""Yes, though she lies abed."Wogan stroked his chin. The Cardinal regarded him quizzically."I trust, Mr. Wogan, that we shall hear Farini. There is talk of hiscoming to Bologna."Wogan did not answer. He was silent; he saw the three sentinels standingwatchfully about the house; he heard them calling "All's well" each tothe other. Then he asked, "Has the Princess her own servants to attendher?""Only M. Chateaudoux, her chamberlain.""Ah!"Wogan leaned forward with a question on his tongue he hardly dared toask. So much hung upon the answer."And M. Chateaudoux is allowed to come and go?""In the daylight."Wogan turned to the Cardinal. "The box will be the best box in thehouse," Wogan suggested."Oh, sir," replied the Cardinal, "on the first tier, to be sure."Wogan turned back to the Chevalier."All that I need now is a letter from your Majesty to the King of Polandand a few rascally guineas. I can leave Bologna before a soul's astir inthe morning. No one but Whittington saw me to-day, and a word will keephim silent. There will be secrecy--" but the Chevalier suddenly cut himshort."No," said he, bringing the palm of his hand down upon the table."Here's a blow that we must bend to! It's a dream, this plan of yours.""But a dream I'll dream so hard, sir, that I'll dream it true," criedWogan, in despair."No, no," said the Chevalier. "We'll talk no more of it. There's God'swill evident in this arrest, and we must bend to it;" and at once Woganremembered his one crowning argument. It was so familiar to histhoughts, it had lain so close at his heart, that he had left itunspoken, taking it as it were for granted that others were as familiarwith it as he."Sir," said he, eagerly, "I have never told you, but the PrincessClementina when a child amongst her playmates had a favourite game. Theycalled it kings and queens. And in that game the Princess was alwayschosen Queen of England."The Chevalier started."Is that so?" and he gazed into Wogan's eyes, making sure that he spokethe truth."In very truth it is," and the two men stood looking each at the otherand quite silent.It was the truth, a mere coincidence if you will, but to both these menomens and auguries were the gravest matters."There indeed is God's finger pointing," cried Wogan. "Sir, give meleave to follow it."The Chevalier still stood looking at him in silence. Then he saidsuddenly, "Go, then, and God speed you! You are a gallant gentleman."He sat down thereupon and wrote a letter to the King of Poland, askinghim to entrust the rescue of his daughter into Wogan's hands. Thisletter Wogan took and money for his journey."You will have preparations to make," said the Chevalier. "I will notkeep you. You have horses?"Mr. Wogan had two in a stable at Bologna. "But," he added, "there is ahorse I left this morning six miles this side of Fiesole, a black horse,and I would not lose it.""Nor shall you," said the Chevalier.Wogan crept back to his lodging as cautiously as he had left it. Therewas no light in any window but in his own, where his servant, Marnier,awaited him. Wogan opened the door softly and found the porter asleep inhis chair. He stole upstairs and made his preparations. These, however,were of the simplest kind, and consisted of half-a-dozen orders toMarnier and the getting into bed. In the morning he woke before daybreakand found Marnier already up. They went silently out of the house asthe dawn was breaking. Marnier had the key to the stables, and theysaddled the two horses and rode through the blind and silent streetswith their faces muffled in their cloaks.They met no one, however, until they were come to the outskirts of thetown. But then as they passed the mouth of an alley a man came suddenlyout and as suddenly drew back. The morning was chill, and the man wasclosely wrapped.Wogan could not distinguish his face or person, and looking down thealley he saw at the end of it only a garden wall, and over the top ofthe wall a thicket of trees and the chimney-tops of a low houseembosomed amongst them. He rode on, secure in the secrecy of hisdesperate adventure. But that same morning Mr. Whittington paid a visitto Wogan's lodging and asked to be admitted. He was told that Mr. Woganhad not yet returned to Bologna."So, indeed, I thought," said he; and he sauntered carelessly along, notto his own house, but to one smaller, situated at the bottom of a_cul-de-sac_ and secluded amongst trees. At the door he asked whetherher Ladyship was yet visible, and was at once shown into a room withlong windows which stood open to the garden. Her Ladyship lay upon asofa sipping her coffee and teasing a spaniel with the toe of herslipper."You are early," she said with some surprise."And yet no earlier than your Ladyship," said Whittington."I have to make my obeisance to my King," said she, stifling a yawn."Could one, I ask you, sleep on so important a day?"Mr. Whittington laughed genially. Then he opened the door and glancedalong the passage. When he turned back into the room her Ladyship hadkicked the spaniel from the sofa and was sitting bolt upright with allher languor gone."Well?" she asked quickly.Whittington took a seat on the sofa by her side."Charles Wogan left Bologna at daybreak. Moreover, I have had a messagefrom the Chevalier bidding me not to mention that I saw him in Bolognayesterday. One could hazard a guess at the goal of so secret a journey.""Ohlau!" exclaimed the lady, in a whisper. Then she nestled back uponthe sofa and bit the fragment of lace she called her handkerchief."So there's an end of Mr. Wogan," she said pleasantly.Whittington made no answer."For there's no chance that he'll succeed," she continued with a touchof anxiety in her voice.Whittington neither agreed nor contradicted. He asked a questioninstead."What is the sharpest spur a man can know? What is it that gives a manaudacity to attempt and wit to accomplish the impossible?"The lady smiled."The poets tell us love," said she, demurely.Whittington nodded his head."Wogan speaks very warmly of the Princess Clementina."Her Ladyship's red lips lost their curve. Her eyes became thoughtful,apprehensive."I wonder," she said slowly."Yes, I too wonder," said Whittington.Outside the branches of the trees rustled in the wind and flung shadows,swift as ripples, across the sunlit grass. But within the little roomthere was a long silence.CHAPTER IVM. Chateaudoux, the chamberlain, was a little portly person with around, red face like a cherub's. He was a creature of the house, onethat walked with delicate steps, a conductor of ceremonies, an expert inthe subtleties of etiquette; and once he held his wand of office in hishand, there was nowhere to be found a being so precise andconsequential. But out of doors he had the timidity of a cat. He lived,however, by rule and rote, and since it had always been his habit totake the air between three and four of the afternoon, he was to be seenbetween those hours at Innspruck on any fine day mincing along theavenue of trees before the villa in which his mistress was heldprisoner.On one afternoon during the month of October he passed a hawker, who,tired with his day's tramp, was resting on a bench in the avenue, andwho carried upon his arm a half-empty basket of cheap wares. The man wasragged; his toes were thrusting through his shoes; it was evident thathe wore no linen, and a week's growth of beard dirtily stubbled hischin,--in a word, he was a man from whom M. Chateaudoux's prim soulpositively shrank. M. Chateaudoux went quickly by, fearing to bepestered for alms. The hawker, however, remained seated upon the bench,drawing idle patterns upon the gravel with a hazel stick stolen from ahedgerow.The next afternoon the hawker was in the avenue again, only this time ona bench at the opposite end; and again he paid no heed to M.Chateaudoux, but sat moodily scraping the gravel with his stick.On the third afternoon M. Chateaudoux found the hawker seated in themiddle of the avenue and over against the door of the guarded villa. M.Chateaudoux, when his timidity slept, was capable of good nature. Therewas a soldier with a loaded musket in full view. The hawker, besides,had not pestered him. He determined to buy some small thing,--a mirror,perhaps, which was always useful,--and he approached the hawker, who forhis part wearily flicked the gravel with his stick and drew a curve hereand a line there until, as M. Chateaudoux stopped before the bench,there lay sketched at his feet the rude semblance of a crown. The stickswept over it the next instant and left the gravel smooth.But M. Chateaudoux had seen, and his heart fluttered and sank. For herewere plots, possibly dangers, most certainly trepidations. He turned hisback as though he had seen nothing, and constraining himself to a slowpace walked towards the door of the villa. But the hawker was now at hisside, whining in execrable German and a strong French accent theremarkable value of his wares. There were samplers most exquisitelyworked, jewels for the most noble gentleman's honoured sweetheart, andpurses which emperors would give a deal to buy. Chateaudoux was urged totake notice that emperors would give sums to lay a hand on the hawker'spurses.M. Chateaudoux pretended not to hear."I want nothing," he said, "nothing in the world;" and he repeated thestatement in order to drown the other's voice."A purse, good gentleman," persisted the hawker, and he dangled onebefore Chateaudoux's eyes. Not for anything would Chateaudoux take thatpurse."Go away," he cried; "I have a sufficiency of purses, and I will not beplagued by you."They were now at the steps of the villa, and the sentry, lifting thebutt of his musket, roughly thrust the hawker back."What have you there? Bring your basket here," said he; and toChateaudoux's consternation the hawker immediately offered the purse tothe sentinel."It is only the poor who have kind hearts," he said; "here's the properpurse for a soldier. It is so hard to get the money out that a man issaved an ocean of drink."The hawker's readiness destroyed any suspicions the sentinel may havefelt."Go away," he said, "quick!""You will buy the purse?"The sentinel raised his musket again."Then the kind gentleman will," said the hawker, and he thrust the purseinto M. Chateaudoux's reluctant hand. Chateaudoux could feel within thepurse a folded paper. He was committed now without a doubt, and in anextreme alarm he flung a coin into the roadway and got him into thehouse. The sentinel carelessly dropped the butt of his musket on thecoin."Go," said he, and with a sudden kick he lifted the hawker half acrossthe road. The hawker happened to be Charles Wogan, who took a littlematter like that with the necessary philosophy. He picked himself up andlimped off.Now the next day a remarkable thing happened. M. Chateaudoux swervedfrom the regularity of his habits. He walked along the avenue, it istrue; but at the end of it he tripped down a street and turned out ofthat into another which brought him to the arcades. He did not appear toenjoy his walk; indeed, any hurrying footsteps behind startled himexceedingly and made his face turn white and red, and his body hot andcold. However, he proceeded along the arcades to the cathedral, which heentered; and just as the clock struck half-past three, in a dark corneropposite to the third of the great statues he drew his handkerchief fromhis pocket.The handkerchief flipped out a letter which fell onto the ground. In thegloom it was barely visible; and M. Chateaudoux walked on, apparentlyunconscious of his loss. But a comfortable citizen in a snuff-colouredsuit picked it up and walked straight out of the cathedral to the GoldenFleece Inn in the Hochstrasse, where he lodged. He went up into his roomand examined the letter. It was superscribed "To M. Chateaudoux," andthe seal was broken. Nevertheless, the finder did not scruple to readit. It was a love-letter to the little gentleman from one Friederika."I am heart-broken," wrote Friederika, "but my fidelity to myChateaudoux has not faltered, nor will not, whatever I may be calledupon to endure. I cannot, however, be so undutiful as to accept myChateaudoux's addresses without my father's consent; and my mother, whois of the same mind with me, insists that even with that consent arunaway marriage is not to be thought of unless my Chateaudoux canprovide me with a suitable woman for an attendant."These conditions fulfilled, Friederika was willing to follow herChateaudoux to the world's end. The comfortable citizen in thesnuff-coloured suit sat for some while over that letter with a strangelight upon his face and a smile of great happiness. The comfortablecitizen was Charles Wogan, and he could dissociate the obstructions ofthe mother from the willingness of the girl.The October evening wove its veils from the mountain crests across thevalleys; the sun and the daylight had gone from the room before Wogantore that letter up and wrote another to the Chevalier at Bologna,telling him that the Princess Clementina would venture herself gladly ifhe could secure the consent of Prince Sobieski, her father. And the nextmorning he drove out in a carriage towards Ohlau in Silesia.It was as the Chevalier Warner that he had first journeyed thither tosolicit for his King the Princess Clementina's hand. Consequently heused the name again. Winter came upon him as he went; the snow gatheredthick upon the hills and crept down into the valleys, encumbering hispath. The cold nipped his bones; he drove beneath great clouds andthrough a stinging air, but of these discomforts he was not sensible.For the mission he was set upon filled his thoughts and ran like a feverin his blood. He lay awake at nights inventing schemes of evasion, andeach morning showed a flaw, and the schemes crumbled. Not that his faithfaltered. At some one moment he felt sure the perfect plan, swift andsecret, would be revealed to him, and he lived to seize the moment. Thepeople with whom he spoke became as shadows; the inns where he restedwere confused into a common semblance. He was like a man in a trance,seeing ever before his eyes the guarded villa at Innspruck, and behindthe walls, patient and watchful, the face of the chosen woman; so thatit was almost with surprise that he looked down one afternoon from thebrim of a pass in the hills and saw beneath him, hooded with snow, theroofs and towers of Ohlau.At Ohlau Wogan came to the end of his luck. From the moment when hepresented his letter he was aware of it. The Prince was broken by hishumiliation and the sufferings of his wife and daughter. He was eveninclined to resent them at the expense of the Chevalier, for in hiswelcome to Wogan there was a measure of embarrassment. His shoulders,which had before been erect, now stooped, his eyes were veiled, the firehad burnt out in him; he was an old man visibly ageing to his grave. Heread the letter and re-read it."No," said he, impatiently; "I must now think of my daughter. Herdignity and her birth forbid that she should run like a criminal in fearof capture, and at the peril very likely of her life, to a king who,after all, is as yet without a crown." And then seeing Wogan flush atthe words, he softened them. "I frankly say to you, Mr. Warner, that Iknow no one to whom I would sooner entrust my daughter than yourself,were I persuaded to this project. But it is doomed to fail. It wouldmake us the laughing-stock of Europe, and I ask you to forget it. Do youfancy the Emperor guards my daughter so ill that you, single-handed, cantake her from beneath his hand?""Your Highness, I shall choose some tried friends to help me.""There is no single chance of success. I ask you to forget it and topass your Christmas here as my very good friend. The sight is longer inage, Mr. Warner, than in youth, and I see far enough now to know thatthe days of Don Quixote are dead. Here is a matter where all Europe isranged and alert on one side or the other. You cannot practise secrecy.At Ohlau your face is known, your incognito too. Mr. Warner came toOhlau once before, and the business on which he came is commonknowledge. The motive of your visit now, which I tell you openly is verygrateful to me, will surely be suspected."Wogan had reason that night to acknowledge the justice of the Prince'sargument. He accepted his hospitality, thinking that with time he wouldpersuade him to allow the attempt; and after supper, while makingriddles in verse to amuse some of the ladies of the court, one of them,the Countess of Berg, came forward from a corner where she had been busywith pencil and paper and said, "It is our turn now. Here, Mr. Warner,is an acrostic which I ask you to solve for me." And with a smile whichheld a spice of malice she handed him the paper. Upon it there were tenrhymed couplets. Wogan solved the first four, and found that the initialletters of the words were C, L, E, M. The answer to the acrostic was"Clementina." Wogan gave the paper back."I can make neither head nor tail of it," said he. "The attempt isbeyond my powers.""Ah," said she, drily, "you own as much? I would never have believed youwould have owned it.""But what is the answer?" asked a voice at which Wogan started."The answer," replied the Countess, "is Mary, Queen of Scots, who wasmost unjustly imprisoned in Fotheringay," and she tore the paper intotiny pieces.Wogan turned towards the voice which had so startled him and saw thegossamer lady whom he had befriended on the road from Florence. At oncehe rose and bowed to her."I should have presented you before to my friend, Lady Featherstone,"said the Countess, "but it seems you are already acquainted.""Indeed, Mr. Warner did me a great service at a pinch," said LadyFeatherstone. "He was my postillion, though I never paid him, as I donow in thanks.""Your postillion!" cried one or two of the ladies, and they gatheredabout the great stove as Lady Featherstone told the story of Wogan'scharioting."I bade him hurry," said she, "and he outsped my bidding. Never wasthere a postillion so considerately inconsiderate. I was tossed like atennis ball, I was one black bruise, I bounced from cushion to cushion;and then he drew up with a jerk, sprang off his horse, vanished into ahouse and left me, panting and dishevelled, a twist of torn ribbons andlace, alone in my carriage in the streets of Bologna.""Bologna. Ah!" said the Countess, with a smile of significance at Wogan.Wogan was looking at Lady Featherstone. His curiosity, thrust into theback of his mind by the more important matter of his mission nowrevived. What had been this lady's business who travelled alone toBologna and in such desperate haste?"Your Ladyship, I remember," he said, "gave me to understand that youwere sorely put to it to reach Bologna."Her Ladyship turned her blue eyes frankly upon Wogan. Then she loweredthem."My brother," she explained, "lay at death's door in Venice. I had justlanded at Leghorn, where I left my maid to recover from the sea, andhurrying across Italy as I did, I still feared that I should not see himalive."The explanation was made readily in a low voice natural to oneremembering a great distress, but without any affectation of gesture orso much as a glance sideways to note whether Wogan received ittrustfully or not. Wogan, indeed, was reassured in a great measure.True, the Countess of Berg was now his declared enemy, but he need notjoin all her friends in that hostility."I was able, most happily," continued Lady Featherstone, "to send mybrother homewards in a ship a fortnight back, and so to stay with myfriend here on my way to Vienna, for we English are all bitten with themadness of travel. Mr. Warner will bear me out?""To be sure I will," said Wogan, stoutly. "For here am I in the depthsof winter journeying to the carnival in Italy."The Countess smiled, all disbelief and amusement, and Lady Featherstoneturned quickly towards him."For my frankness I claim a like frankness in return," said she, with apretty imperiousness.Wogan was a little startled. He suddenly remembered that he hadpretended to know no English on the road to Bologna, nor had he givenany reason for his haste. But it was upon neither of these matters thatshe desired to question him."You spoke in parables," said she, "which are detestable things. Yousaid you would not lose your black horse for the world because the ladyyou were to marry would ride upon it into your city of dreams. There's asaying that has a provoking prettiness. I claim a frank answer."Wogan was silent, and his face took on the look of a dreamer."Come," said one. It was the Princess Charlotte, the second daughter ofthe Prince Sobieski, who spoke. "We shall not let you off," said she.Wogan knew that she would not. She was a girl who was never checked byany inconvenience her speech might cause. Her tongue was a watchman'srattle, and she never spoke but she laughed to point the speech."Be frank," said the Countess; "it is a matter of the heart, and soproper food for women.""True," answered Wogan, lightly, "it is a matter of the heart, and insuch matters can one be frank--even to oneself?"Wogan was immediately puzzled by the curious look Lady Featherstonegave him. The words were a mere excuse, yet she seemed to take them veryseriously. Her eyes sounded him."Yes," she said slowly; "are you frank, even to yourself?" and she spokeas though a knowledge of the answer would make a task easier to her.Wogan's speculations, however, were interrupted by the entrance ofPrincess Casimira, Sobieski's eldest daughter. Wogan welcomed her comingfor the first time in all his life, for she was a kill-joy, a person ofan extraordinary decorum. According to Wogan, she was "that black careupon the horseman's back which the poets write about." Her firstquestion if she was spoken to was whether the speaker was from top totoe fitly attired; her second, whether the words spoken were well-bred.At this moment, however, her mere presence put an end to the demands foran explanation of Wogan's saying about his horse, and in a grateful moodto her he slipped from the room.This evening was but one of many during that Christmastide. Wogan mustwear an easy countenance, though his heart grew heavy as lead. TheCountess of Berg was the Prince Constantine's favourite; and Wogan wasnot slow to discover that her smiling face and quiet eyes hid the mostmasterful woman at that court. He made himself her assiduous servant,whether in hunting amid the snow or in the entertainments at the palace,but a quizzical deliberate word would now and again show him that shewas still his enemy. With the Princess Casimira he was a profoundcritic of observances: he invented a new cravat and was most carefulthat there should never be a wrinkle in his stockings; with the PrincessCharlotte he laughed till his head sang. He played all manner of parts;the palace might have been the stage of a pantomime and himself theharlequin. But for all his efforts it did not seem that he advanced hiscause; and if he made headway one evening with the Prince, the nextmorning he had lost it, and so Christmas came and passed.But two days after Christmas a courier brought a letter to the castle.He came in the evening, and the letter was carried to Wogan while he wasat table. He noticed at once that it was in his King's hand, and heslipped it quickly into his pocket. It may have been somethingprecipitate in his manner, or it may have been merely that all were onthe alert to mark his actions, but at once curiosity was aroused. Noplain words were said; but here and there heads nodded together andwhispered, and while some eyed Wogan suspiciously, a few women whosehearts were tuned to a sympathy with the Princess in her imprisonment,or touched with the notion of a romantic attachment, smiled upon himtheir encouragement. The Countess of Berg for once was unobservant,however.Wogan made his escape from the company as soon as he could, and going upto his apartments read the letter. The moon was at its full, and whatwith the clear, frosty air, and the snow stretched over the world likea white counterpane, he was able to read the letter by the windowwithout the light of a candle. It was written in the Chevalier's owncipher and hand; it asked anxiously for news and gave some. Wogan hadhad occasion before to learn that cipher by heart. He stood by thewindow and spelled the meaning. Then he turned to go down; but at thedoor his foot slipped upon the polished boards, and he stumbled onto hisknee. He picked himself up, and thinking no more of the matter rejoinedthe company in a room where the Countess of Berg was playing upon aharp."The King," said Wogan, drawing the Prince apart, "leaves Bologna forRome.""So the letter came from him?" asked the Prince, with an eagerness whichcould not but seem hopeful to his companion."And in his own hand," replied Wogan.The Prince shuffled and hesitated as though he was curious to hearparticulars. Wogan thought it wise to provoke his curiosity bydisregarding it. It seemed that there was wisdom in his reticence, for alittle later the Prince took him aside while the Countess of Berg wasstill playing upon her harp, and said,--"Single-handed you could do nothing. You would need friends."Wogan took a slip of paper from his pocket and gave it to the Prince."On that slip," said he, "I wrote down the names of all the friendswhom I could trust, and by the side of the names the places where Icould lay my hands upon them. One after the other I erased the namesuntil only three remained."The Prince nodded and read out the names."Gaydon, Misset, O'Toole. They are good men?""The flower of Ireland. Those three names have been my comfort theselast three weeks.""And all the three at Schlestadt. How comes that about?""Your Highness, they are all three officers in Dillon's Irish regiment,and so have that further advantage.""Advantage?""Your Highness," said Wogan, "Schlestadt is near to Strasbourg, whichagain is not far from Innspruck, and being in French territory would bethe most convenient place to set off from."There was a sound of a door shutting; the Prince started, looked atWogan, and laughed. He had been upon the verge of yielding; but for thatdoor Wogan felt sure he would have yielded. Now, however, he merelywalked away to the Countess of Berg, and sitting beside her asked her toplay a particular tune. But he still held the slip of paper in his handand paid but a scanty heed to the music, now and then looking doubtfullytowards Wogan, now and then scanning that long list of names. His lips,too, moved as though he was framing the three selected names, Gaydon,Misset, O'Toole, and "Schlestadt" as a bracket uniting them. Then hesuddenly rose up and crossed the room to Wogan."My daughter wrote that a woman must attend her. It is a necessaryprovision.""Your Highness, Misset has a wife, and the wife matches him.""They are warned to be ready?""At your Highness's first word that slip of paper travels to Schlestadt.It is unsigned, it imperils no one, it betrays nothing. But it will tellits story none the less surely to those three men, for Gaydon knows myhand."The Prince smiled in approval."You have prudence, Mr. Warner, as well as audacity," said he. He gavethe paper back, listened for a little to the Countess, who was bendingover her harp-strings, and then remarked, "The Prince's letter was inhis own hand too?""But in cipher.""Ah!"The Prince was silent for a while. He balanced himself first on onefoot, then on the other."Ciphers," said he, "are curious things, compelling to the imaginationand a provocation to the intellect."Mr. Wogan kept a grave face and he replied with unconcern, though hisheart beat quick; for if the Prince had so much desire to see theChevalier's letter, he must be well upon his way to consenting toWogan's plan."If your Highness will do me the honour to look at this cipher. It hasbaffled the most expert."His Highness condescended to be pleased with Wogan's suggestion. Wogancrossed the room towards the door; but before he reached it, theCountess of Berg suddenly took her fingers from her harp-strings with agesture of annoyance."Mr. Warner," she said, "will you do me the favour to screw this wiretighter?" And once or twice she struck it with her fingers."May I claim that privilege?" said the Prince."Your Highness does me too much honour," said the Countess, but thePrince was already at her side. At once she pointed out to him theparticular string. Wogan went from the room and up the great staircase.He was lodged in a wing of the palace. From the head of the staircase heproceeded down a long passage. Towards the end of this passage anothershort passage branched off at a right angle on the left-hand side. Atthe corner of the two passages stood a table with a lamp and somecandlesticks. This time Wogan took a candle, and lighting it at the lampturned into the short passage. It was dark but for the light of Wogan'scandle, and at the end of it facing him were two doors side by side.Both doors were closed, and of these the one on the left gave onto hisroom.Wogan had walked perhaps halfway from the corner to his door before hestopped. He stopped suddenly and held his breath. Then he shaded hiscandle with the palm of his hand and looked forward. Immediately heturned, and walking on tiptoe came silently back into the big passage.Even this was not well lighted; it stretched away upon his right andleft, full of shadows. But it was silent. The only sounds which reachedWogan as he stood there and listened were the sounds of people movingand speaking at a great distance. He blew out his candle, cautiouslyreplaced it on the table, and crept down again towards his room. Therewas no window in this small passage, there was no light there at allexcept a gleam of silver in front of him and close to the ground. Thatgleam of silver was the moonlight shining between the bottom of one ofthe doors and the boards of the passage. And that door was not the doorof Wogan's room, but the room beside it. Where his door stood, theremight have been no door at all.Yet the moon which shone through the windows of one room must needs alsoshine into the other, unless, indeed, the curtains were drawn. Butearlier in the evening Wogan had read a letter by the moonlight at hiswindow; the curtains were not drawn. There was, therefore, a rug, anobstruction of some sort against the bottom of the door. But earlier inthe evening Wogan's foot had slipped upon the polished boards; there hadbeen no mat or skin at all. It had been pushed there since. Wogan couldnot doubt for what reason. It was to conceal the light of a lamp orcandle within the room. Someone, in a word, was prying in Wogan's room,and Wogan began to consider who. It was not the Countess, who wasengaged upon her harp, but the Countess had tried to detain him. Woganwas startled as he understood the reason of her harp becoming sosuddenly untuned. She had spoken to him with so natural a spontaneity,she had accepted the Prince's aid with so complete an absence ofembarrassment; but none the less Wogan was sure that she knew. Moreover,a door had shut--yes, while he was speaking to the Prince a door hadshut.So far Wogan's speculations had travelled when the moonlight streamedout beneath his door too. It made now a silver line across the passagebroken at the middle by the wall between the rooms. The mat had beenremoved, the candle put out, the prying was at an end; in another momentthe door would surely open. Now Wogan, however anxious to discover whoit was that spied, was yet more anxious that the spy should not discoverthat the spying was detected. He himself knew, and so was armed; he didnot wish to arm his enemies with a like knowledge. There was no cornerin the passage to conceal him; there was no other door behind which hecould slip. When the spy came out, Wogan would inevitably be discovered.He made up his mind on the instant. He crept back quickly and silentlyout of the mouth of the passage, then he made a noise with his feet,turned again into the passage, and walked loudly towards his door. Evenso he was only just in time. Had he waited a moment longer, he wouldhave been detected. For even as he turned the corner there was already avertical line of silver on the passage wall; the door had been alreadyopened. But as his footsteps sounded on the boards, that linedisappeared.He walked slowly, giving his spy time to replace the letter, time tohide. He purposely carried no candle, he reached his door and opened it.The room to all seeming was empty. Wogan crossed to a table, lookingneither to the right nor the left, above all not looking towards the bedhangings. He found the letter upon the table just as he had left it. Itcould convey no knowledge of his mission, he was sure. It had not eventhe appearance of a letter in cipher; it might have been a mereexpression of Christmas good wishes from one friend to another. But tomake his certainty more sure, and at the same time to show that he hadno suspicion anyone was hiding in the room, he carried the letter overto the window, and at once he was aware of the spy's hiding-place. Itwas not the bed hangings, but close at his side the heavy window curtainbulged. The spy was at his very elbow; he had but to lift his arm--andof a sudden the letter slipped from his hand to the floor. He did notdrop it on purpose, he was fairly surprised; for looking down to readthe letter he had seen protruding from the curtain a jewelled shoebuckle, and the foot which the buckle adorned seemed too small andslender for a man's.Wogan had an opportunity to make certain. He knelt down and picked upthe letter; the foot was a woman's. As he rose up again, the curtainever so slightly stirred. Wogan pretended to have remarked nothing; hestood easily by the window with his eyes upon his letter and his mindbusy with guessing what woman his spy might be. And he remained onpurpose for some while in this attitude, designing it as a punishment.So long as he stood by the window that unknown woman cheek by jowl withhim must hold her breath, must never stir, must silently endure an agonyof fear at each movement that he made.At last he moved, and as he turned away he saw something so unexpectedthat it startled him. Indeed, for the moment it did more than startlehim, it chilled him. He understood that slight stirring of the curtain.The woman now held a dagger in her hand, and the point of the bladestuck out and shone in the moonlight like a flame.Wogan became angry. It was all very well for the woman to come spyinginto his room; but to take a dagger to him, to think a dagger in awoman's hand could cope with him,--that was too preposterous. Wogan feltvery much inclined to sweep that curtain aside and tell his visitor howhe had escaped from Newgate and played hide-and-seek amongst thechimney-pots. And although he restrained himself from that, he allowedhis anger to get the better of his prudence. Under the impulse of hisanger he acted. It was a whimsical thing that he did, and though hesuffered for it he could never afterwards bring himself to regret it. Hedeliberately knelt down and kissed the instep of the foot whichprotruded from the curtain. He felt the muscles of the foot tighten, butthe foot was not withdrawn. The curtain shivered and shook, but no crycame from behind it, and again the curtain hung motionless. Wogan wentout of the room and carried the letter to the Prince. The Countess ofBerg was still playing upon her harp, and she gave no sign that sheremarked his entrance. She did not so much as shoot one glance ofcuriosity towards him. The Prince carried the letter off to his cabinet,while Wogan sat down beside the Countess and looked about the room."I have not seen Lady Featherstone this evening," said he."Have you not?" asked the Countess, easily."Not so much as her foot," replied Wogan.The conviction came upon him suddenly. Her hurried journey to Bolognaand her presence at Ohlau were explained to him now by her absence fromthe room. His own arrival at Bologna had not remained so secret as hehad imagined. The fragile and gossamer lady, too flowerlike for theworld's rough usage, was the woman who had spied in his room and who hadpossessed the courage to stand silent and motionless behind the curtainafter her presence there had been discovered. Wogan had a picture beforehis eyes of the dagger she had held. It was plain that she would stop atnothing to hinder this marriage, to prevent the success of his design;and somehow the contrast between her appearance and her actions hadsomething uncanny about it. Wogan was inclined to shiver as he satchatting with the Countess. He was not reassured when Lady Featherstoneboldly entered the room; she meant to face him out. He remarked,however, with a trifle of satisfaction that for the first time she worerouge upon her cheeks.CHAPTER VWogan, however, was not immediately benefited by his discovery. He knewthat if a single whisper of it reached the Prince's ear there would beat once an end to his small chances. The old man would take alarm; hemight punish the offender, but he would none the less surely refuse hisconsent to Wogan's project. Wogan must keep his lips quite closed andlet his antagonists do boldly what they would.And that they were active he found a way to discover. The Countess fromthis time plied him with kindness. He must play cards with her andPrince Constantine in the evening; he must take his coffee in herprivate apartments in the morning. So upon one of these occasions hespoke of his departure from Ohlau."I shall go by way of Prague;" and he stopped in confusion and correctedhimself quickly. "At least, I am not sure. There are other ways intoItaly."The Countess showed no more concern than she had shown over herharp-string. She talked indifferently of other matters as though she hadbarely heard his remark; but she fell into the trap. Wogan was awarethat the Governor of Prague was her kinsman; and that afternoon he leftthe castle alone, and taking the road to Vienna, turned as soon as hewas out of sight and hurried round the town until he came out upon theroad to Prague. He hid himself behind a hedge a mile from Ohlau, and hadnot waited half an hour before a man came riding by in hot haste. Theman wore the Countess's livery of green and scarlet; Wogan decided notto travel by way of Prague, and returned to the castle content with hisafternoon's work. He had indeed more reason to be content with it thanhe knew, for he happened to have remarked the servant's face as well ashis livery, and so at a later time was able to recognise it again. Hehad no longer any doubt that a servant in the same livery was well uponhis way to Vienna. The roads were bad, it was true, and the journeylong; but Wogan had not the Prince's consent, and could not tell when hewould obtain it. The servant might return with the Emperor's order forhis arrest before he had obtained it. Wogan was powerless. He sent hislist of names to Gaydon in Schlestadt, but that was the only precautionhe could take. The days passed; Wogan spent them in unavailingpersuasions, and New Year's Day came and found him still at Ohlau and ina great agitation and distress.Upon that morning, however, while he was dressing, there came a rap uponhis door, and when he opened it he saw the Prince's treasurer, a foppishgentleman, very dainty in his words."Mr. Warner," said the treasurer, "his Highness has hinted to me hisdesires; he has moulded them into the shape of a prayer or a request.""In a word, he has bidden you," said Wogan."Fie, sir! There's a barbarous and improper word, an ill-sounding word;upon my honour, a word without dignity or merit and banishable frompolite speech. His Highness did most prettily entreat me with a finegentleness of condescension befitting a Sunday or a New Year's Day tobring and present and communicate from hand to hand a gift,--a mostincomparable proper gift, the mirror and image of his most incomparableproper friendship."Wogan bowed, and requested the treasurer to enter and be seated thewhile he recovered his breath."Nay, Mr. Warner, I must be concise, puritanical, and unadorned in mylanguage as any raw-head or bloody-bones. The cruel, irrevocable momentspass. I could consume an hour, sir, before I touched as I may say thehem of the reason of my coming.""Sir, I do not doubt it," said Wogan."But I will not hinder you from forthwith immediately and at onceincorporating with your most particular and inestimable treasures thisjewel, this turquoise of heaven's own charming blue, encased anddecorated with gold."The treasurer drew the turquoise from his pocket. It was of the size ofan egg. He placed it in Wogan's hand, who gently returned it."I cannot take it," said he."Gemini!" cried the treasurer. "But it is more than a turquoise, Mr.Warner. Jewellers have delved in it. It has become subservient to man'snecessities. It is a snuff-box.""I cannot take it.""King John of Poland, he whom the vulgar call Glorious John, did rescueand enlarge it from its slavery to the Grand Vizier of Turkey at thegreat battle of Vienna. There is no other in the world--"Wogan cut the treasurer short."You will take it again to his Highness. You will express to him mygratitude for his kindness, and you will say furthermore these words:'Mr. Warner cannot carry back into Italy a present for himself and arefusal for his Prince.'"Wogan spoke with so much dignity that the treasurer had no words toanswer him. He stood utterly bewildered; he stared at the jewel."Here is a quandary!" he exclaimed. "I do declare every circumstance ofme trembles," and shaking his head he went away. But in a little he cameagain."His Highness distinguishes you, Mr. Warner, with imperishable honours.His Highness solicits your company to a solitary dinner. You shall dinewith him alone. His presence and unfettered conversation shall seasonyour soup and be the condiments of your meat."Wogan's heart jumped. There could be only one reason for so unusual aninvitation on such a day, and he was not mistaken; for as soon as thePrince was served in a little room, he dismissed the lackeys andpresented again the turquoise snuff-box with his own hands."See, Mr. Wogan, your persuasions and your conduct have gained me over,"said he. "Your refusal of this bagatelle assures me of your honour. Itrust myself entirely to your discretion; I confide my beloved daughterto your care. Take from my hands the gift you refused this morning, andbe assured that no prince ever gave to any man such full powers as Iwill give to you to-night."Wogan's gratitude wellnigh overcame him. The thing that he had workedfor and almost despaired of had come to pass. For a while he could notspeak; he flung himself upon his knees and kissed the Prince's hand.That very night he received the letter giving him full powers, and thenext morning he drove off in a carriage of his Highness drawn by sixPolish horses towards the town of Strahlen on the road to Prague. AtStrahlen he stayed a day, feigning a malady, and sent the carriage back.The following day, however, he took horse, and riding along by-roads andlanes avoided Prague and hurried towards Schlestadt.He rode watchfully, avoiding towns, and with an eye alert for everypasser-by. That he was ahead of any courier from the Emperor at Viennahe did not doubt, but, on the other hand, the Countess of Berg and LadyFeatherstone had the advantage of him by some four days. There would beno lack of money to hinder him; there would be no scruple as to themeans. Wogan remembered the moment in his bedroom when he had seen thedagger bright in the moon's rays. If he could not be arrested, therewere other ways to stop him. Accidents may happen to any man.However, he rode unhindered with the Prince's commission safe againsthis breast. He felt the paper a hundred times a day to make sure that itwas not stolen nor lost, nor reduced to powder by a miracle. Day by dayhis fears diminished, since day by day he drew a day's journey nearer toSchlestadt. The paper became a talisman in his thoughts,--a thingendowed with magic properties to make him invisible like the cloak orcap of the fairy tales. Those few lines in writing not a week back hadseemed an unattainable prize, yet he had them; and so now they promisedhim that other unattainable thing, the enlargement of the Princess. Itwas in his nature, too, to grow buoyant in proportion to thedifficulties of his task. He rode forward, therefore, with a good heart,and one sombre evening of rain came to a village some miles beyondAugsburg.The village was a straggling half-mile of low cottages, lost as it wereon the level of a wide plain. Across this plain, bare but for a fewlines of poplars and stunted willow-trees, Wogan had ridden all theafternoon; and so little did the thatched cottages break the monotony ofthe plain's appearance, that though he had had the village within hisvision all that while, he came upon it unawares. The dusk was gathering,and already through the tiny windows the meagre lights gleamed upon theroad and gave to the falling raindrops the look of steel beads. Fourdays would now bring Wogan to Schlestadt. The road was bad and full ofholes. He determined to go no farther that night if he could find alodging in the village, and coming upon a man who stood in his path hestopped his horse."Is there an inn where a traveller may sleep?" he asked."Assuredly," replied the man, "and find forage for his horse. The lasthouse--but I will myself show your Honour the way.""There is no need, my friend, that you should take a colic," said Wogan."I shall earn enough drink to correct the colic," said the man. He had asack over his head and shoulders to protect him from the rain, andstepped out in front of Wogan's horse. They came to the end of thestreet and passed on into the open darkness. About twenty yards farthera house stood by itself at the roadside, but there were only lights inone or two of the upper windows, and it held out no promise ofhospitality. In front of it, however, the man stopped; he opened thedoor and halloaed into the passage. Wogan stopped too, and above hishead something creaked and groaned like a gibbet in the wind. He lookedup and saw a sign-board glimmering in the dusk with a new coat of whitepaint. He had undoubtedly come to the inn, and he dismounted.The landlord advanced at that moment to the door."My man," said he, "will take your horse to the stable;" and the fellowwho had guided Wogan led the horse off."Oh, is he your man?" said Wogan. "Ah!" And he followed the landlordinto the house.It was not only the sign-board which had been newly painted, for in thenarrow passage the landlord stopped Wogan."Have a care, sir," said he; "the walls are wet. It will be best if youstand still while I go forward and bring a light."He went forward in the dark and opened a door at the end of the passage.A glow of ruddy light came through the doorway, and Wogan caught aglimpse of a brick-floored kitchen and a great open chimney and one ortwo men on a bench before the fire. Then the door was again closed. Theclosing of the door seemed to Wogan a churlish act."The hospitality," said he to himself, "which plants a man in the roadso that a traveller on a rainy night may not miss his bed should atleast leave the kitchen door open. Why should I stay here in the dark?"Wogan went forward, and from the careful way in which he walked,--a wayso careful and stealthy indeed that his footsteps made no sound,--itmight have been inferred that he believed the floor to be newly paintedtoo. He had, at all events, no such scruples about the kitchen door, forhe seized the handle and flung it open quickly. He was met at once by acold draught of wind. A door opposite and giving onto a yard at the backhad been opened at precisely the same moment; and as Wogan steppedquickly in at his door a man stepped quickly out by the door oppositeand was lost in the darkness."What! Are you going?" the landlord cried after him as he turned fromthe fire at which he was lighting a candle."Wilhelm has a wife and needs must," at once said a woman who wasreaching down some plates from a dresser.The landlord turned towards the passage and saw Wogan in the doorway."You found your way, sir," said he, looking at Wogan anxiously."Nor are your walls any poorer of paint on that account," said Wogan ashe took his wet cloak and flung it over a chair.The landlord blew out his candle and busied himself about laying thetable. A great iron pot swung over the fire by a chain, and the liddanced on the top and allowed a savoury odour to escape. Wogan sathimself down before the fire and his clothes began to steam."You laugh at my paint, sir," said the landlord. He was a fat,good-humoured-looking man, communicative in his manner as a Bonifaceshould be, and his wife was his very complement. "You laugh at mypaint, but it is, after all, a very important thing. What is a greatlady without her rouge-pot, when you come to think of it? It is the samewith an inn. It must wear paint if it is to attract attention and make aprofit.""There is philosophy in the comparison," said Wogan."Sir, an innkeeper cannot fail of philosophy if he has his eyes and aspark of intelligence. The man who took refuge in a tub because thefollies of his fellows so angered him was the greatest fool of them all.He should have kept an inn on the road to Athens, for then the follieswould have put money into his pocket and made him laugh instead ofgrowl."His wife came over to the fireplace and lifted the lid of the pot."The supper is ready," said she."And perhaps, sir, while you are eating it you can think of a name formy inn.""Why, it has a sign-board already," said Wogan, "and a name, too, Isuppose.""It has a sign-board, but without a device," said the landlord, andwhile Wogan drew a chair to the table he explained his predicament."There is another inn five miles along the road, and travellers preferto make their halt there. They will not stop here. My father, sir, setit all down to paint. It was his dream, sir, to paint the house fromfloor to ceiling; his last words bade me pinch and save until I couldpaint. Well, here is the house painted, and I am anxious for a newdevice and name which shall obliterate the memory of the other. 'TheBlack Eagle' is its old name. Ask any traveller familiar with the roadbetween Augsburg and Schlestadt, and he will counsel you to avoid 'TheBlack Eagle.' You are travelling to Schlestadt, perhaps."Wogan had started ever so slightly."To Strasbourg," he said, and thereafter ate his supper in silence,taking count with himself. "My friend," so his thoughts ran, "the sooneryou reach Schlestadt the better. Here are you bleating like a sheep at amere chance mention of your destination. You have lived too close withthis fine scheme of yours. You need your friends."Wogan began to be conscious of an unfamiliar sense of loneliness. Itgrew upon him that evening while he sat at the table; it accompanied himup the stairs to bed. Other men of his age were now seated comfortablyby their own hearths, while he was hurrying about Europe, a vagabondadventurer, risking his life for--and at once the reason why he wasrisking his life rose up to convict him a grumbler.The landlord led him into a room in the front of the house which held agreat canopied bed and little other furniture. There was not even acurtain to the window. Wogan raised his candle and surveyed the dingywalls."You have not spent much of your new paint on your guest-room, myfriend.""Sir, you have not marked the door," said his host, reproachfully."True," said Wogan, with a yawn; "the door is admirably white.""The frame of the door does not suffer in a comparison." The landlordraised and lowered his candle that Wogan might see."I do not wish to be unjust to the frame of the door," said Wogan, andhe drew off his boots. The landlord bade his guest good-night anddescended the stairs.Wogan, being a campaigner, was methodical even though lost inreflection. He was reflecting now why in the world he should lately havebecome sensible of loneliness; but at the same time he put the Prince'sletter beneath his pillow and a sheathed hunting-knife beside theletter. He had always been lonely, and the fact had never troubled him;he placed a chair on the left of the bed and his candle on the chair.Besides, he was not really lonely, having a host of friends whom he hadmerely to seek out; he took the charges from his pistol lest they shouldbe damp, and renewed them and placed the pistols by the candle. He hadeven begun to pity himself for his loneliness, and pity of that sort, herecognised, was a discreditable quality; the matter was altogether verydisquieting. He propped his sword against the chair and undressed. Wogancast back in his memories for the first sensations of loneliness. Theywere recent, since he had left Ohlau, indeed. He opened the window; therain splashed in on the sill, pattered in the street puddles below, andfell across the country with a continuous roar as though the level plainwas a stretched drum. No; he had only felt lonely since he had come nearto Schlestadt, since, in a word, he had deemed himself to haveoutstripped pursuit. He got into his bed and blew out the candle.For a moment the room was black as pitch, then on his left side thedarkness thinned at one point and a barred square of grey becamevisible; the square of grey was the window. Wogan understood that hisloneliness came upon him with the respite from his difficulties, andconcluded that, after all, it was as well that he had not a comfortablefireside whereby to sun himself. He turned over on his right side andsaw the white door and its white frame. The rain made a dreary soundoutside the window, but in three days he would be at Schlestadt. Besideshe fell asleep.And in a little he dreamed. He dreamed that he was swinging on a gibbetbefore the whole populace of Innspruck, that he died to his bewildermentwithout any pain whatever, but that pain came to him after he was quitedead,--not bodily pain at all, but an anguish of mind because the chainsby which he was hanged would groan and creak, and the populace,mistaking that groaning for his cries, scoffed at him and ridiculed hisKing for sending to rescue the Princess Clementina a marrowless thingthat could not die like a man. Wogan stirred in his sleep and waked up.The rain had ceased, and a light wind blew across the country. Outsidethe sign-board creaked and groaned upon its stanchion. Once he becameaware of that sound he could no longer sleep for listening to it; and atlast he sprang out of bed, and leaning out of the window lifted thesign-board off the stanchion and into his bedroom.It was a plain white board without any device on it. "True," thoughtWogan, "the man wants a new name for his inn." He propped the boardagainst the left side of his bed, since that was nearest to the window,got between the sheets, and began to think over names. He turned on hisright side and fell asleep again.He was not to sleep restfully that night. He waked again, but veryslowly, and without any movement of his body. He lay with his facetowards the door, dreamily considering that the landlord, for all hispride in his new paint, had employed a bad workman who had left a blackstrip of the door unpainted,--a fairly wide strip, too, which his hostshould never have overlooked.Wogan was lazily determining to speak to the landlord about it when hishalf-awakened mind was diverted by a curious phenomenon, a delusion ofthe eyes such as he had known to have befallen him before when he hadstared for a long while on any particular object: the strip of blackwidened and widened. Wogan waited for it to contract, as it would besure to do. But it did not contract, and--so Wogan waked up completely.He waked up with a shock of the heart, with all his senses startled andstrained. But he had been gradually waking before, and so by neithermovement nor cry did he betray that he was awake. He had not locked thedoor of his room; that widening strip of black ran vertically down fromthe lintel to the ground and between the white door and the white doorframe. The door was being cautiously pushed open; the strip of black wasthe darkness of the passage coming through.Wogan slid his hand beneath his pillow, and drew the knife from itssheath as silently as the door opened. The strip of black ceased towiden, there was a slight scuffling sound upon the floor which Wogan wasat no loss to understand. It was the sound of a man crawling into theroom upon his hands and knees.Wogan lay on his side and felt grateful to his host,--an admirableman,--for he had painted his door white, and now he crawled through iton his hands and knees. No doubt he would crawl to the side of the bed;he did. To feel, no doubt, for Mr. Wogan's coat and breeches and anylittle letter which might be hiding in the pockets. But here Wogan waswrong. For he saw a dark thing suddenly on the counterpane at the edgeof the bed. The dark thing travelled upwards very softly; it had fourfingers and a thumb. It was, no doubt, travelling towards the pillow,and as soon as it got there--but Wogan watching that hand beneath hisdosed eyelids had again to admit that he was wrong. It did not traveltowards the pillow; to his astonishment it stole across towards him, ittouched his chest very gently, and then he understood. The hand wascreeping upwards towards his throat.Meanwhile Wogan had seen no face, though the face must be just below thelevel of the bed. He only saw the hand and the arm behind it. He movedas if in his sleep, and the hand disappeared. As if in his sleep, heflung out his left arm and felt for the sign-board standing beside hisbed. The bed was soft. Wogan wanted something hard, and it had occurredto him that the sign-board would very well serve his turn. An idea, too,which seemed to him diverting, had presented itself to his mind.With a loud sigh and a noisy movement such as a man halfway betweenwakefulness and sleep may make he flung himself over onto his left side.At the same moment he lifted the white sign-board onto the bed. Itseemed that he could not rest on his left side, for he flung over againto his right and pulled the bedclothes over as he turned. The sign-boardnow lay flat upon the bed, but on the right side between himself and theman upon the floor. His mouth uttered a little murmur of contentment, hedrew down the hand beneath the pillow, and in a second was breathingregularly and peacefully.[Illustration: "WITH HIS RIGHT ARM HE DROVE HIS HUNTING KNIFE DOWN INTOTHE BACK OF THE HAND."--_Page 69_.]The hand crept onto the bed again and upwards, and suddenly lay spreadout upon the board and quite still. Just for a second the owner of thathand had been surprised and paralysed by the unexpected. It was onlythat second which Wogan needed. He sat up, and with his right arm hedrove his hunting knife down into the back of the hand and pinned itfast to the board; with his left he felt for, found, and gripped a mouthalready open to cry out. He dropped his hunting knife, caught theintruder round the waist, lifted him onto the bed, and setting a kneeupon his chest gagged him with an end of the sheet. The man foughtwildly with his free hand, beating the air. Wogan knelt upon that armwith his other knee.Wogan needed a rope, but since he had none he used the sheets and boundhis prisoner to the bed. Then he got up and went to the door. The housewas quite silent, quite dark. Wogan shut the door gently--there was nokey in the lock--and bending over the bed looked into the face of hisassailant. The face was twisted with pain, the whites of the eyes glaredhorribly, but Wogan could see that the man was his landlord.He stood up and thought. There was another man who had met him in thevillage and had guided him to the inn; there was still a third who hadgone out of the kitchen as Wogan had entered it; there was the wife,too, who might be awake.Wogan crossed to the window and looked out. The window was perhapstwenty feet from the ground, but the stanchion was three feet below thewindow. He quickly put on his clothes, slipped the letter from under hispillow into a pocket, strapped his saddle-bag and lowered it from thewindow by a blanket. He had already one leg on the sill when aconvulsive movement of the man on the bed made him stop. He climbed backinto the room, drew the knife out of the board and out of the handpinned to the board, and making a bandage wrapped the wound up."You must lie there till morning, my friend," Wogan whispered in hisear, "but here's a thing to console you. I have found a name for yourinn; I have painted the device upon your sign-board. The 'Inn of theFive Red Fingers.' There's never a passer-by but will stop to inquirethe reason of so conspicuous a sign;" and Wogan climbed out of thewindow, lowered himself till he hung at the full length of his arms fromthe stanchion, and dropped on the ground. He picked up his saddle-bagand crept round the house to the stable. The door needed only a push toopen it. In the hay-loft above he heard a man snoring. Mr. Wogan did notthink it worth while to disturb him. He saddled his horse, walked it outinto the yard, mounted, and rode quietly away.He had escaped, but without much credit to himself."There was no key in the door," he thought. "I should have noticed it.Misset, the man of resources, would have tilted a chair backwardsagainst that door with its top bar wedged beneath the door handle."Certainly Wogan needed Misset if he was to succeed in his endeavour. Hewas sunk in humiliation; his very promise to rescue the Princess shrankfrom its grandeur and became a mere piece of impertinence. But he stillhad his letter in his pocket, and in time that served to enhearten him.Only two more days, he thought. On the third night he would sleep inSchlestadt.CHAPTER VIThe next afternoon Wogan came to the town of Ulm."Gaydon," he said to himself as he watched its towers and the smokecurling upwards from its chimneys, "would go no further to-day with thisletter in his pocket. Gaydon--the cautious Gaydon--would sleep in thistown and in its most populous quarter. Gaydon would put up at thebusiest inn. Charles Wogan will follow Gaydon's example."Wogan rode slowly through the narrow streets of gabled houses until hecame to the market square. The square was frequented; its great fountainwas playing; citizens were taking the air with their wives and children;the chief highway of the town ran through it; on one side stood thefrescoed Rathhaus, and opposite to it there was a spacious inn. Wogandrew up at the doorway and saw that the hall was encumbered withbaggage. "Gaydon would stop here," said he, and he dismounted. Theporter came forward and took his horse."I need a room," said Wogan, and he entered the house. There were peoplegoing up and down the stairs. While he was unstrapping his valise in hisbedroom, a servant with an apron about his waist knocked at the doorand inquired whether he could help him."No," said Wogan; and he thought with more confidence than ever, "here,to be sure, is where Gaydon would sleep."He supped at the ordinary in the company of linen merchants andtravellers, and quite recovered his spirits. He smoked a pipe of tobaccoon a bench under the trees of the square, and giving an order that heshould be called at five went up to his bedroom.There was a key in the lock of the door, which Wogan turned; he alsotilted a chair and wedged the handle. He opened the window and lookedout. His room was on the first floor and not very high from the ground.A man might possibly climb through the window. Gaydon would assuredlyclose the shutters and the window, so that no one could force anentrance without noise. Wogan accordingly did what Gaydon wouldassuredly have done, and when he blew out his candle found himself inconsequence in utter darkness. No glimmer of light was anywhere visible.He had his habits like another, and one of them was to sleep withoutblinds or curtains drawn. His present deflection from this habit madehim restless; he was tired, he wished above all things to sleep, butsleep would not come. He turned from one side to the other, he punchedhis pillows, he tried to sleep with his head low, and when that failedwith his head high.He resigned himself in the end to a sleepless night, and lying in hisbed drew some comfort from the sound of voices and the tread of feet inthe passages and the rooms about him. These, at all events, werecompanionable, and they assured him of safety. But in a while theyceased, and he was left in a silence as absolute as the darkness. Heendured this silence for perhaps half an hour, and then all manner ofinfinitesimal sounds began to stir about him. The lightest of footstepsmoved about his bed, faint sighs breathed from very close at hand, evenhis name was softly whispered. He sat suddenly up in his bed, and atonce all these sounds became explained to him. They came from the streetand the square outside the window. So long as he sat up they wereremote, but the moment he lay down again they peopled the room."Sure," said Wogan, "here is a lesson for architects. Build no shuttersto a house when the man that has to live in it has a spark ofimagination, else will he go stark raving mad before the mortar's dry.Window shutters are window shutters, but they are the doors of Bedlam aswell. Now Gaydon should have slept in this room. Gaydon's a great man.Gaydon has a great deal of observation and common sense, and was neverplagued with a flim-flam of fancies. To be sure, I need Gaydon, butsince I have not Gaydon, I'll light a candle."With that Wogan got out of bed. He had made himself so secure with hiskey and his tilted chair and his shutters that he had not thought ofplacing his candle by his bedside. It stood by his looking-glass on thetable. Now the room was so pitch dark that Wogan could do no more thanguess at the position even of the window. The table, he remembered, wasnot far from the door, and the door was at some distance from his bed,and in the wall on his right. He moved forward in the darkness with hishands in front of him, groping for the table. The room was large; in alittle his hands touched something, and that something was a pillar ofthe bed. He had missed his way in his bedroom. Wogan laughed to himselfand started off again; and the next thing which his outstretched handstouched was a doorknob. The table should now be a little way to hisleft. He was just turning away in that direction, when it occurred tohim that he ought to have felt the rim of the top bar of his tiltedchair underneath the door-handle. He stooped down and felt for thechair; there was no chair, and he stood very still.The fears bred of imagination had now left him; he was restored by theshock of an actual danger. He leaned forward quietly and felt if the keywas still in the lock. But there was no lock to this door. Wogan feltthe surface of the door; it was of paper. It was plainly the door of acupboard in the wall, papered after the same pattern as the wall, whichby the flickering light of his single candle he had overlooked.He opened the door and stretched out his arms into the cupboard. Hetouched something that moved beneath his hand, a stiff, short crop ofhair, the hair of a man's head. He drew his arm away as though an adderhad stung it; he did not utter a cry or make a movement. He stood for amoment paralysed, and during that moment a strong hand caught him by thethroat.Wogan was borne backwards, his assailant sprang at him from thecupboard, he staggered under the unexpected vigour of the attack, heclutched his enemy, and the two men came to the ground with a crash.Even as he fell Wogan thought, "Gaydon would never have overlooked thatcupboard."It was the only reflection, however, for which he could afford time. Hewas undermost, and the hand at his throat had the grip of a steel glove.He fought with blows from his fists and his bent knees; he twisted hislegs about the legs of his enemy; he writhed his body if so he mightdislodge him; he grappled wildly for his throat. But all the time hisstrength grew less; he felt that his temples were swelling, and itseemed to him that his eyes must burst. The darkness of the room wasspotted with sparks of fire; the air was filled with a continuous roarlike a million chariots in a street. He saw the face of his chosenwoman, most reproachful and yet kind, gazing at him from behind the barswhich now would never be broken, and then there came a loud banging atthe door. The summons surprised them both, so hotly had they beenengaged, so unaware were they of the noise which their fall had made.Wogan felt his assailant's hand relax and heard him say in a low muffledvoice, "It is nothing. Go to bed! I fell over a chair in the dark."That momentary relaxation was, he knew, his last chance. He gathered hisstrength in a supreme effort, lurched over onto his left side, andgetting his right arm free swung it with all his strength in thedirection of the voice. His clenched fist caught his opponent full underthe point of the chin, and the hand at Wogan's throat clutched once andfell away limp as an empty glove. Wogan sat up on the floor and drew hisbreath. That, after all, was more than his antagonist was doing. Theknocking at the door continued; Wogan could not answer it, he had notthe strength. His limbs were shaking, the sweat clotted his hair anddripped from his face. But his opponent was quieter still. At last hemanaged to gather his legs beneath him, to kneel up, to stand shakilyupon his feet. He could no longer mistake the position of the door; hetottered across to it, removed the chair, and opened it.The landlord with a couple of servants stepped back as Wogan showedhimself to the light of their candles. Wogan heard their exclamations,though he did not clearly understand them, for his ears still buzzed. Hesaw their startled faces, but only dimly, for he was dazzled by thelight. He came back into the room, and pointing to his assailant,--asturdy, broad man, who now sat up opening and shutting his eyes in adazed way,--"Who is that?" he asked, gasping rather than speaking thewords."Who is that?" repeated the landlord, staring at Wogan."Who is that?" said Wogan, leaning against the bed-post."Why, sir, your servant. Who should he be?"Wogan was silent for a little, considering as well as his rambling witsallowed this new development."Ah!" said Wogan, "he came here with me?" "Yes, since he is yourservant."The landlord was evidently mystified; he was no less evidently speakingwith sincerity. Wogan reflected that to proffer a charge against theassailant would involve his own detention in Ulm."To be sure," said he, "I know. This is my servant. That is preciselywhat I mean." His wits were at work to find a way out of his difficulty."This is my servant? What then?" he asked fiercely."But I don't understand," said the landlord."You don't understand!" cried Wogan. "Was there ever such a landlord? Hedoes not understand. This is my servant, I tell you.""Yes, sir, but--but--""Well?""We were roused--there was a noise--a noise of men fighting.""There would have been no noise," said Wogan, triumphantly, "if you hadprepared a bed for my servant. He would not have crept into my cupboardto sleep off his drunkenness.""But, sir, there was a bed.""You should have seen that he was carried to it. As it is, here have Ibeen driven to beat him and to lose my night's rest in consequence. Itis not fitting. I do not think that your inn is well managed."Wogan expressed his indignation with so majestic an air that thelandlord was soon apologising for having disturbed a gentleman in theproper exercise of belabouring his valet."We will carry the fellow away," said he."You will do nothing of the kind," said Wogan. "He shall get back intohis cupboard and there he shall remain till daybreak. Come, get up!"Wogan's self-appointed valet got to his feet. There was no possibilityof an escape for him since there were three men between him and thedoor. On the other hand, obedience to Wogan might save him from a chargeof attempted theft."In with you," said Wogan, and the man obeyed. His head no doubt wasstill spinning from the blow, and he had the stupid look of one dazed."There is no lock to the door," said the landlord."There is no need of a lock," said Wogan, "so long as one has a chair.The fellow will do very well till the morning. But I will take yourthree candles, for it is not likely that I shall sleep."Wogan smoked his pipe all the rest of the night, reclining on a coupleof chairs in front of the cupboard. In the morning he made his valetwalk three miles by his horse's side. The man dared not disobey, andwhen Wogan finally let him go he was so far from the town that, had heconfederates there, he could do no harm.Wogan continued his journey. Towns, it was proved, were no safer to himthan villages. He began to wonder how it was that no traps had been laidfor him on the earlier stages of his journey, and he suddenly hit uponthe explanation. "It was that night," said he to himself, "when thePrince sat by the Countess with the list of my friends in his hands. Thenames were all erased but three, and against those three was that othername of Schlestadt. No doubt the Countess while she bent over herharp-strings took a look at that list. I must run the gauntlet intoSchlestadt."Towards evening he came to Stuttgart and rode through the Schloss Platzand along the Koenigstrasse. Wogan would not sleep there, since there theDuke of Wuertemberg held his court, and in that court the Countess ofBerg was very likely to have friends. He rode onwards through the valleyalong the banks of the Nesen brook until he came to its junction withthe Neckar.A mile farther a wooden mill stood upon the river-bank, beyond the millwas a tavern, and beyond the tavern stood a few cottages. At somedistance from the cottages along the road, Wogan could see a high brickwall, and over the top the chimneys and the slate roof of a large house.Wogan stopped at the tavern. It promised no particular comfort, it was asmall dilapidated house; but it had the advantage that it was free fromnew paint. It seemed to Wogan, however, wellnigh useless to takeprecautions in the choice of a lodging; danger leaped at him from everyquarter. For this last night he must trust to his luck; and besidesthere was the splash of the water falling over the mill-dam. It wasalways something to Wogan to fall asleep with that sound in his ears. Hedismounted accordingly, and having ordered his supper asked for a room."You will sleep here?" exclaimed his host."I will at all events lie in bed," returned Wogan.The innkeeper took a lamp and led the way up a narrow winding stair."Have a care, sir," said he; "the stairs are steep.""I prefer them steep.""I am afraid that I keep the light from you, but there is no room fortwo to walk abreast.""It is an advantage. I do not like to be jostled on the stairs."The landlord threw open a door at the top of the stairs."The room is a garret," he said in apology."So long as it has no cupboards it will serve my turn.""Ah! you do not like cupboards.""They fill a poor man with envy of those who have clothes to hang inthem."Wogan ascertained that there were no cupboards. There was a key, too, inthe lock, and a chest of drawers which could be moved very suitably infront of the door."It is a good garret," said Wogan, laying down his bag upon a chair."The window is small," continued the landlord."One will be less likely to fall out," said Wogan. One would also, hethought, be less likely to climb in. He looked out of the window. It wasa good height from the ground; there was no stanchion or projection inthe wall, and it seemed impossible that a man could get his shouldersthrough the opening. Wogan opened the window to try it, and the sound ofsomeone running came to his ears."Oho!" said he, but he said it to himself, "here's a man in a mightyhurry."A mist was rising from the ground; the evening, too, was dark. Wogancould see no one in the road below, but he heard the footstepsdiminishing into a faint patter. Then they ceased altogether. The manwho ran was running in the direction of Stuttgart."Yes, your garret will do," said Wogan, in quite a different voice. Hehad begun to think that this night he would sleep, and he realised nowthat he must not. The man might be running on his own business, but thiswas the last night before Wogan would reach his friends. Stuttgart wasonly three miles away. He could take no risks, and so he must stayawake with his sword upon his knees. Had his horse been able to carryhim farther, he would have ridden on, but the horse was even more wearythan its master. Besides, the narrow staircase made his room anexcellent place to defend."Get my supper," said he, "for I am very tired.""Will your Excellency sup here?" asked the landlord."By no manner of means," returned Wogan, who had it in his mind to spyout the land. "I detest nothing so much as my own company."He went downstairs into the common room and supped off a smoked ham anda bottle of execrable wine. While he ate a man came in and sat him downby the fire. The man had a hot, flushed face, and when he saluted Woganhe could hardly speak."You have been running," said Wogan, politely."Sir, running is a poor man's overcoat for a chilly evening; besides ithelps me to pay with patience the price of wine for vinegar;" and thefellow called the landlord.Presently two other men entered, and taking a seat by the fire chattedtogether as though much absorbed in their private business. These twomen wore swords."You have a good trade," said Wogan to the landlord."The mill brings me custom."The door opened as the landlord spoke, and a big loud-voiced mancheerily wished the company good evening. The two companions at the firepaid no heed to the civility; the third, who had now quite recovered hisbreath, replied to it. Wogan pushed his plate away and called for apipe. He thought it might perhaps prove well worth his while to studyhis landlord's clients before he retired up those narrow stairs. Thefour men gave no sign of any common agreement, nor were they at allcurious as to Wogan. If they spoke at all, they spoke as strangersspeak. But while Wogan was smoking his first pipe a fifth man entered,and he just gave one quick glance at Wogan. Wogan behind a cloud oftobacco-smoke saw the movement of the head and detected the look. Itmight signify nothing but curiosity, of course, but Wogan felt glad thatthe stairs were narrow. He finished his pipe and was knocking out theashes when it occurred to him that he had seen that fifth man before;and Wogan looked at him more carefully, and though the fellow wasdisguised by the growth of a beard he recognised him. It was the servantwhom Wogan had seen one day in the Countess of Berg's livery of greenand red galloping along the road to Prague."I know enough now," thought Wogan. "I can go to bed. The staircase is apretty place with which we shall all be more familiar in an hour ortwo." He laughed quietly to himself with a little thrill of enjoyment.His fatigue had vanished. He was on the point of getting up from thetable when the two men by the fire looked round towards the last comerand made room for him upon their settle. But he said, "I find the roomhot, and will stay by the door."Wogan changed his mind at the words; he did not get up. On the contrary,he filled his pipe a second time very thoughtfully. He had stayed toolong in the room, it seemed; the little staircase was, after all, likelyto prove of no service. He did not betray himself by any start orexclamation, he did not even look up, but bending his head over his pipehe thought over the disposition of the room. The fireplace was on hisright; the door was opposite to him; the window in the wall at his left.The window was high from the ground and at some distance. On the otherhand, he had certain advantages. He was in a corner, he had the five menin front of him, and between them and himself stood a solid table. Aloaded pistol was in his belt, his sword hung at his side, and hishunting knife at his waist. Still the aspect of affairs was changed."Five men," thought he, "upon a narrow staircase are merely one man whohas to be killed five times, but five men in a room are fivesimultaneous assailants. I need O'Toole here, I need O'Toole's six feetfour and the length of his arm and the weight of him--these things Ineed--but are there five or only four?" And he was at once aware thatthe two men at the fire had ceased to talk of their business. No one,indeed, was speaking at all, and no one so much as shuffled a foot.Wogan raised his head and proceeded to light his pipe; and he saw thatall the five men were silently watching him, and it seemed to him thatthose five pairs of eyes were unnaturally bright.However, he appeared to be entirely concerned with his pipe, which,however hard he puffed at it, would not draw. No doubt the tobacco waspacked too tight in the bowl. He loosened it, and when he had loosenedit the pipe had gone out. He fumbled in his pocket and discovered in thebreast of his coat a letter. This letter he glanced through to make surethat it was of no importance, and having informed himself upon the pointhe folded it into a long spill and walked over to the hearth.The five pairs of eyes followed his movements. He, however, had noattention to spare. He bent down, lit his spill in the flame, anddeliberately lighted his pipe. The tobacco rose above the rim of thebowl like a head of ale in a tankard. Wogan, still holding the burningspill in his right hand, pressed down the tobacco with the little fingerof his left, and lighted the pipe again. By this time his spill hadburned down to his fingers. He dropped the end into the fire and walkedback to his seat. The five pairs of eyes again turned as he turned. Hestumbled at a crack in the floor, fell against the table with a clatterof his sword, and rolled noisily into his seat. When he sat down acareful observer might have noticed that his pistol was now at fullcock.He had barely seated himself when the polite man, who had come firsthot and short of breath into the room, crossed the floor and leaningover the table said with a smile and the gentlest voice, "I think, sir,you ought to know that we are all very poor men.""I, too," replied Wogan, "am an Irishman."The polite man leaned farther across the table; his voice becamewheedling in its suavity. "I think you ought to know that we are allvery poor men.""The repetition of the remark," said Wogan, "argues certainly a povertyof ideas.""We wish to become less poor.""It is an aspiration which has pushed many men to creditable feats.""You can help us.""My prayers are at your disposal," said Wogan."By more than your prayers;" and he added in a tone of apology, "thereare five of us.""Then I have a guinea apiece for you," and Wogan thrust the table alittle away from him to search his pockets. It also gave him more play."We do not want your money. You have a letter which we can coin."Wogan smiled."There, sir, you are wrong."The polite man waved the statement aside. "A letter from PrinceSobieski," said he."I had such a letter a minute ago, but I lit my pipe with it under yournose."The polite man stepped back; his four companions started to their feet.The servant from Ohlau cried out with an oath, "It's a lie."Wogan shrugged his shoulders and crossed his legs."Here's a fine world," said he. "A damned rag of a lackey gives agentleman the lie.""You will give me the letter," said the polite man, coming round thetable. He held his right hand behind his back."You can sweep up the ashes from the hearth," said Wogan, who made nomovement of any kind. The polite man came close to his side; Wogan lethim come. The polite man stretched out his left hand towards Wogan'spocket. Wogan knocked the hand away, and the man's right arm swungupwards from behind his back with a gleaming pistol in the hand. Woganwas prepared for him; he had crossed his legs to be prepared, and as thearm came round he kicked upwards from the knee. The toe of his heavyboot caught the man upon the point of the elbow. His arm was flung up;the pistol exploded and then dropped onto the floor. That assailant wasfor the time out of action, but at the same moment the lackey camerunning across the floor, his shoulders thrust forward, a knife in hishand.Wogan had just time to notice that the lackey's coat was open at hisbreast. He stood up, leaned over the table, caught the lapels one ineach hand as the fellow rushed at him, and lifting the coat up off hisshoulders violently jammed it backwards down his arms as though he wouldstrip him of it. The lackey stood with his arms pinioned at his elbowsfor a second. During that second Wogan drew his hunting knife from hisbelt and drove it with a terrible strength into the man's chest."There's a New Year's gift for your mistress, the Countess of Berg,"cried Wogan; and the lackey swung round with the force of the blow andthen hopped twice in a horrible fashion with his feet together acrossthe room as though returning to his place, and fell upon the floor,where he lay twisting.The polite man was nursing his elbow in a corner; there were threeothers left,--the man with the cheery voice, who had no weapon but aknobbed stick, and the companions on the settle. These two had swordsand had drawn them. They leaped over the lackey's body and rushed atWogan one a little in advance of the other. Wogan tilted the heavy tableand flung it over to make a barricade in front of him. It fell with acrash, and the lower rim struck upon the instep of the leader and pinnedhis foot. His companion drew back; he himself uttered a cry and wrenchedat his foot. Wogan with his left hand drew his sword from the scabbard,and with the same movement passed it through his opponent's body. Theman stood swaying, pinned there by his foot and held erect. Then he madeone desperate lunge, fell forward across the barricade, and hung there.Wogan parried the lunge; the sword fell from the man's hand andclattered onto the floor within the barricade. Wogan stamped upon itwith his heel and snapped the blade. He had still two opponents; and asthey advanced again he suddenly sprung onto the edge of the table, gaveone sweeping cut in a circle with his sword, and darted across the room.The two men gave ground; Wogan passed between them. Before they couldstrike at his back he was facing them again. He had no longer hisbarricade, but on the other hand his shoulders were against the door.The swordsman crossed blades with him, and at the first pass Woganrealised with dismay that his enemy was a swordsman in knowledge as wellas in the possession of the weapon. He had a fencer's suppleness ofwrist and balance of body; he pressed Wogan hard and without flurry. Theblade of his sword made glittering rings about Wogan's, and the pointstruck at his breast like an adder.Wogan was engaged with his equal if not with his better. He was fightingfor his life with one man, and he would have to fight for it with two,nay, with three. For over his opponent's shoulder he saw his firstpolite antagonist cross to the table and pick up from the ground thebroken sword. One small consolation Wogan had; the fellow picked it upwith his left hand, his right elbow was still useless. But even thatconsolation lasted him for no long time, for out of the tail of his eyehe could see the big fellow creeping up with his stick raised along thewall at his right.Wogan suddenly pressed upon his opponent, delivering thrust upon thrust,and forced him to give ground. As the swordsman drew back, Wogan swepthis weapon round and slashed at the man upon his right. But the strokewas wide of its mark, and the big man struck at the sword with hisstick, struck with all his might, so that Wogan's arm tingled from thewrist to the shoulder. That, however, was the least part of the damagethe stick did. It broke Wogan's sword short off at the hilt.Both men gave a cry of delight. Wogan dropped the hilt."I have a loaded pistol, my friends; you have forgotten that," he cried,and plucked the pistol from his belt. At the same moment he felt behindhim with his left hand for the knob of the door. He fired at theswordsman and his pistol missed, he flung it at the man with the stick,and as he flung it he sprang to the right, threw open the door, dartedinto the passage, and slammed the door to.It was the work of a second. The men sprang at him as he opened thedoor; as he slammed it close a sword-point pierced the thin panel andbit like a searing iron into his shoulder. Wogan uttered a cry; he heardan answering shout in the room, he clung to the handle, setting his footagainst the wall, and was then stabbed in the back. For his host waswaiting for him in the passage.Wogan dropped the door-handle and turned. That last blow had thrown himinto a violent rage. Possessed by rage, he was no longer conscious ofwounds or danger; he was conscious only of superhuman strength. Theknife was already lifted to strike again. Wogan seized the wrist whichheld the knife, grappled with the innkeeper, and caught him about thebody. The door of the room, now behind him, was flung violently open.Wogan, who was wrought to a frenzy, lifted up the man he wrestled with,and swinging round hurled him headlong through the doorway. The threemen were already on the threshold. The new missile bounded against them,tumbled them one against the other, and knocked them sprawling andstruggling on the floor.Wogan burst into a laugh of exultation; he saw his most dangerous enemystriving to disentangle himself and his sword."Aha, my friend," he cried, "you handle a sword very prettily, but I amthe better man at cock-shies." And shutting the door to be ran down thepassage into the road.He had seen a house that afternoon with a high garden wall about it aquarter of a mile away. Wogan ran towards it. The mist was still thick,but he now began to feel his strength failing. He was wounded in theshoulder, he was stabbed in the back, and from both wounds the blood wasflowing warm. Moreover, he looked backwards once over his shoulder andsaw a lantern dancing in the road. He kept doggedly running, though hispace slackened; he heard a shout and an answering shout behind him. Hestumbled onto his knees, picked himself up, and staggered on, labouringhis breath, dizzy. He stumbled again and fell, but as he fell he struckagainst the sharp corner of the wall. If he could find an entrance intothe garden beyond that wall! He turned off the road to the left and ranacross a field, keeping close along the side of the wall. He came toanother corner and turned to the right. As he turned he heard voices inthe road. The pursuers had stopped and were searching with the lanternfor traces of his passage. He ran along the back of the wall, feelingfor a projection, a tree, anything which would enable him to climb it.The wall was smooth, and though the branches of trees swung and creakedabove his head, their stems grew in the garden upon the other side. Hewas pouring with sweat, his breath whistled, in his ears he had thesound of innumerable armies marching across the earth, but he stumbledon. And at last, though his right side brushed against the wall, he nonethe less struck against it also with his chest. He was too dazed for themoment to understand what had happened; all the breath he had left wasknocked clean out of his body; he dropped in a huddle on the ground.In a little he recovered his breath; he listened and could no longerhear any sound of voices; he began to consider. He reached a hand out infront of him and touched the wall; he reached out a hand to the right ofhim and touched the wall again. The wall projected then abruptly andmade a right angle.Now Wogan had spent his boyhood at Rathcoffey among cliffs and rocks.This wall, he reflected, could not be more than twelve feet high. Wouldhis strength last out? He came to the conclusion that it must.He took off his heavy boots and flung them one by one over the wall.Then he pulled off his coat at the cost of some pain and an addedweakness, for the coat was stuck to his wounds and had roughly staunchedthem. He could feel the blood again soaking his shirt. There was all themore need, then, for hurry. He stood up, jammed his back into the angleof the wall, stretched out his arms on each side, pressing with hiselbows and hands, and then bending his knees crossed his legs tailorfashion, and set the soles of his stockinged feet firmly against thebricks on each side. He was thus seated as it were upon nothing, butretaining his position by the pressure of his arms and feet and hiswhole body. Still retaining this position, very slowly, verylaboriously, he worked himself up the angle, stopping now and then toregain his breath, now and then slipping back an inch. But he mountedtowards the top, and after a while the back of his head no longertouched the bricks. His head was above the coping of the wall.It was at this moment that he saw the lantern again, just at the cornerwhere he had turned. The lantern advanced slowly; it was now held aloft,now close to the ground. Wogan was very glad he had thrown his bootsand coat into the garden. He made a few last desperate struggles; hecould now place the palms of his hands behind him upon the coping, andhe hoisted himself up and sat on the wall.The lantern was nearer to him; he lay flat upon his face on the coping,and then lowering himself upon the garden side to the full length of hisarms, he let go. He fell into a litter of dead leaves, very soft andcomfortable. He would not have exchanged them at that moment for theEmperor's own bed. He lay upon his back and saw the dark branches abovehis head grow bright and green. His pursuers were flashing their lanternon the other side; there was only the thickness of the wall between himand them. He could even hear them whispering and the brushing of theirfeet. He lay still as a mouse; and then the earth heaved up and fellaway altogether beneath him. Wogan had fainted.CHAPTER VIIIt was still night when Wogan opened his eyes, but the night was nowclear of mist. There was no moon, however, to give him a guess at thehour. He lay upon his back among the dead leaves, and looking upwards atthe stars, caught as it seemed in a lattice-work of branches, floatedback into consciousness. He moved, and the movement turned him sick withpain. The knowledge of his wounds came to him and brought with it aclear recollection of the last three nights. The ever-widening blackstrip in the door on the first night, the clutch at his throat and theleap from the cupboard on the second, the silent watching of those fivepairs of eyes on the third, and the lackey with the knife in his breasthopping with both feet horribly across the floor,--the horror of theserecollections swept in upon him and changed him from a man into atimorous child. He lay and shuddered until in every creak of thebranches he heard the whisper of an enemy, in every flutter of leavesacross the lawn a stealthy footstep, and behind every tree-stem hecaught the flap of a cloak.Stiff and sore, he raised himself from the ground, he groped for hisboots and coat, and putting them on moved cautiously through the trees,supporting himself from stem to stem. He came to the borders of a wide,smooth lawn, and on the farther side stood the house,--a long,two-storeyed house with level tiers of windows stretching to the rightand the left, and a bowed tower in the middle. Through one of thewindows in the ground-floor Wogan saw the spark of a lamp, and aboutthat window a fan of yellow light was spread upon the lawn.Wogan at this moment felt in great need of companionship. He stoleacross the lawn and looked into the room. An old gentleman with adelicate face, who wore his own white hair, was bending over a book at adesk. The room was warmly furnished, the door of the stove stood open,and Wogan could see the logs blazing merrily. A chill wind swept acrossthe lawn, very drear and ghostly. Wogan crept closer to the window. Agreat boar-hound rose at the old man's feet and growled; then the oldman rose, and crossing to the window pressed his face against the paneswith his hands curved about his eyes. Wogan stepped forward and stoodwithin the fan of light, spreading out his arms to show that he came asa supplicant and with no ill intent.The old man, with a word to his hound, opened the window."Who is it?" he asked, and with a thrill not of fear but of expectationin his voice."A man wounded and in sore straits for his life, who would gladly sitfor a few minutes by your fire before he goes upon his way."The old man stood aside, and Wogan entered the room. He was spatteredfrom head to foot with mud, his clothes were torn, his eyes sunken, hisface was of a ghastly pallor and marked with blood."I am the Chevalier Warner," said Wogan, "a gentleman of Ireland. Youwill pardon me. But I have gone through so much these last three nightsthat I can barely stand;" and dropping into a chair he dragged it up tothe door of the stove, and crouched there shivering.The old man closed the window."I am Count Otto von Ahlen, and in my house you are safe as you arewelcome."He went to a sideboard, and filling a glass carried it to Wogan. Theliquor was brandy. Wogan drank it as though it had been so much water.He was in that condition of fatigue when the most extraordinary eventsseem altogether commonplace and natural. But as he felt the spiritwarming his blood, he became aware of the great difference between hisbattered appearance and that of the old gentleman with the rich dressand the white linen who stooped so hospitably above him, and he began towonder at the readiness of the hospitality. Wogan might have been athief, a murderer, for all Count Otto knew. Yet the Count, with no otherprotection than his dog, had opened his window, and at that late hour ofthe night had welcomed him without a word of a question."Sir," said Wogan, "my visit is the most unceremonious thing in theworld. I plump in upon you in the dark of the morning, as I take it tobe, and disturb you at your books without so much as knocking at thedoor.""It is as well you did not knock at the door," returned the Count, "formy servants are long since in bed, and your knock would very likely havereached neither their ears nor mine." And he drew up a chair and satdown opposite to Wogan, bending forward with his hands upon his knees.The firelight played upon his pale, indoor face, and it seemed to Woganthat he regarded his guest with a certain wistfulness. Wogan spoke histhought aloud,--"Yet I might be any hedgerow rascal with a taste for your plate, and noparticular scruples as to a life or two lying in the way of itsgratification."The Count smiled."Your visit is not so unexampled as you are inclined to think. Nearlythirty years ago a young man as you are came in just such a plight asyou and stood outside this window at two o'clock of a dark morning. Evenso early in my life I was at my books," and he smiled rather sadly. "Ilet him in and he talked to me for an hour of matters strange anddreamlike, and enviable to me. I have never forgotten that hour, nor totell the truth have I ever ceased to envy the man who talked to meduring it, though many years since he suffered a dreadful doom andvanished from among his fellows. I shall be glad, therefore, to hearyour story if you have a mind to tell it me. The young man who cameupon that other night was Count Philip Christopher von Koenigsmarck."Wogan started at the mention of this name. It seemed strange that thatfitful and brilliant man, whose brief, passionate, guilty life andmysterious end had made so much noise in the world, had crossed thatlawn and stood before that window at just such an hour, and maybe hadsat shivering in Wogan's very chair."I have no such story as Count Philip von Koenigsmarck no doubt had totell," said Wogan."Chevalier," said Count Otto, with a nod of approval, "Koenigsmarck hadthe like reticence, though he was not always so discreet, I fear. ThePrincess Sophia Dorothea was at that time on a visit to the Duke ofWuertemberg at the palace in Stuttgart, but Koenigsmarck told me only thathe had snatched a breathing space from the wars in the Low Countries andwas bound thither again. Rumour told me afterwards of his fatalattachment. He sat where you sit, Chevalier, wounded as you are, afugitive from pursuit. Even the stains and disorder of his plight couldnot disguise the singular beauty of the man or make one insensible tothe charm of his manner. But I forget my duties," and he rose. "It wouldbe as well, no doubt, if I did not wake my servants?" he suggested."Count Otto," returned Wogan, with a smile, "they have their day's workto-morrow."The old man nodded, and taking a lamp from a table by the door went outof the room.Wogan remained alone; the dog nuzzled at his hand; but it seemed toWogan that there was another in the room besides himself and the dog.The sleeplessness and tension of the last few days, the fatigue of hisarduous journey, the fever of his wounds, no doubt, had their effectupon him. He felt that Koenigsmarck was at his side; his eyes couldalmost discern a shadowy and beautiful figure; his ears could almosthear a musical vibrating voice. And the voice warned him,--in somestrange unaccountable way the voice warned and menaced him."I fought, I climbed that wall, I crossed the lawn, I took refuge herefor love of a queen. For love of a queen all my short life I lived. Forlove of a queen I died most horribly; and the queen lives, though itwould have gone better with her had she died as horribly."Wogan had once seen the lonely castle of Ahlden where that queen wasimprisoned; he had once caught a glimpse of her driving in the duskacross the heath surrounded by her guards with their flashing swords.He sat chilled with apprehensions and forebodings. They crowded in uponhis mind all the more terrible because he could not translate them intodefinite perils which beyond this and that corner of his life mightawait him. He was the victim of illusions, he assured himself, at whichto-morrow safe in Schlestadt he would laugh. But to-night the illusionswere real. Koenigsmarck was with him. Koenigsmarck was by some mysteriousalchemy becoming incorporate with him. The voice which spoke and warnedand menaced was as much his as Koenigsmarck's.The old Count opened the door and heard Wogan muttering to himself as hecrouched over the fire. The Count carried a basin of water in his handand a sponge and some linen. He insisted upon washing Wogan's wounds anddressing them in a simple way."They are not deep," he said; "a few days' rest and a clever surgeonwill restore you." He went from the room again and brought back a tray,on which were the remains of a pie, a loaf of bread, and some fruit."While you eat, Chevalier, I will mix you a cordial," said he, and heset about his hospitable work. "You ask me why I so readily opened mywindow to you. It was because I took you for Koenigsmarck himself comeback as mysteriously as he disappeared. I did not think that if he cameback now his hair would be as white, his shoulders as bent, as mine.Indeed, one cannot think of Koenigsmarck except as a youth. You had thevery look of him as you stood in the light upon the lawn. You have, if Imay say so, something of his gallant bearing and something of hisgrace."Wogan could have heard no words more distressing to him at this moment."Oh, stop, sir. I pray you stop!" he cried out violently, and noting theinstant he had spoken the surprise on Count Otto's face. "There, sir, Igive you at once by my discourtesy an example of how little I merit acomparison with that courtly nobleman. Let me repair it by telling you,since you are willing to hear, of my night's adventure." And as he atehe told his story, omitting the precise object of his journey, thenature of the letter which he had burned, and any name which might givea clue to the secret of his enterprise.The Count Otto listened with his eyes as well as his ears; he hung uponthe words, shuddering at each danger that sprang upon Wogan, exclaimingin wonder at the shift by which he escaped from it, and at times helooked over towards his books with a glance of veritable dislike."To feel the blood run hot in one's veins, to be bedfellows with peril,to go gallantly forward hand in hand with endeavour," he mused and brokeoff. "See, I own a sword, being a gentleman. But it is a toy, anornament; it stands over there in the corner from day to day, and myservants clean it from rust as they will. Now you, sir, I suppose--""My horse and my sword, Count," said Wogan, "when the pinch comes, theyare one's only servants. It would be an ill business if I did not see totheir wants."The old man was silent for a while. Then he said timidly, "It was for awoman, no doubt, that you ran this hazard to-night?""For a woman, yes."The Count folded his hands and leaned forward."Sir, a woman is a strange inexplicable thing to me. Their words, theirlooks, their graceful, delicate shapes, the motives which persuade them,the thoughts which their eyes conceal,--all these qualities make thembeings of another world to me. I do envy men at times who can standbeside them, talk with them without fear, be intimate with them, andunderstand their intricate thoughts.""Are there such men?" asked Wogan."Men who love, such as Count Koenigsmarck and yourself."Wogan held up his hand with a cry."Count, such men, we are told, are the blindest of all. Did notKoenigsmarck prove it? As for myself, not even in that respect can I beranked with Koenigsmarck. I am a mere man-at-arms, whose love-making is aclash of steel.""But to-night--this risk you ran; you told me it was for a woman.""For a woman, yes. For love of a woman, no, no, no!" he exclaimed withsurprising violence. Then he rose from his chair."But I have stayed my time," said he, "you have never had a moregrateful guest. I beg you to believe it."Count Otto barely heard the words. He was absorbed in the fancifuldreams born of many long solitary evenings, and like most timid anduncommunicative men he made his confidence in a momentary enthusiasm toa stranger."Koenigsmarck spoke for an hour, mentioning no names, so that I who frommy youth have lived apart could not make a guess. He spoke with a dealof passion; it seemed that one hour his life was paradise and the next ahell. Even as he spoke he was one instant all faith and the next alldespair. One moment he was filled with his unworthiness and wonder thatso noble a creature as a woman should bend her heart and lips from herheaven down to his earth. The next he could not conceive any man shouldbe such a witless ass as to stake his happiness on the steadiness of somanifest a weathercock as a woman's favour. It was all very strangetalk; it opened to me, just as when a fog lifts and rolls down again, amomentary vision of a world of colours in which I had no share; and totell the truth it left me with a suspicion which has recurred again andagain, that all my solitary years over my books, all the delights whichthe delicate turning of a phrase, or the chase and capture of an elusiveidea, can bring to one may not be worth, after all, one single minute ofliving passion. Passion, Chevalier! There is a word of which I know themeaning only by hearsay. But I wonder at times, whatever harm it works,whether there can be any great thing without it. But you are anxious togo forward upon your way."He again took up his lamp, and requesting Wogan to follow him, unlatchedthe window. Wogan, however, did not move."I am wondering," said he, "whether I might be yet deeper in your debt.I left behind me a sword."Count Otto set his lamp down and took a sword from the corner of theroom."I called it an ornament, and yet in other hands it might well prove aserviceable weapon. The blade is of Spanish steel. You will honour me bywearing it."Wogan was in two minds with regard to the Count. On the one hand, he wasmost grateful; on the other he could not but think that over his bookshe had fallen into a sickly way of thought. He was quite ready, however,to wear his sword; moreover, when he had hooked the hanger to his belthe looked about the room."I had a pistol," he said carelessly, "a very useful thing is a pistol,more useful at times than a sword.""I keep one in my bedroom," said the Count, setting the lamp down, "ifyou can wait the few moments it will take me to fetch it."Mr. Wogan was quite able to wait. He was indeed sufficiently generous totell Count Otto that he need not hurry. The Count fetched the pistol andtook up the lamp again."Will you now follow me?"Wogan looked straight before him into the air and spoke to no one inparticular."A pistol is, to be sure, more useful than a sword; but there is justone thing more useful on an occasion than a pistol, and that is ahunting knife."Count Otto shook his head."There, Chevalier, I doubt if I can serve you.""But upon my word," said Wogan, picking up a carving-knife from thetray, "here is the very thing.""It has no sheath."Wogan was almost indignant at the suggestion that he would go so far asto ask even his dearest friend for a sheath. Besides, he had a sheath,and he fitted the knife into it."Now," said he, pleasantly, "all that I need is a sound, swift,thoroughbred horse about six or seven years old."Count Otto for the fourth time took up his lamp."Will you follow me?" he said for the fourth time.Wogan followed the old man across the lawn and round a corner of thehouse until he came to a long, low building surmounted by a cupola. Thebuilding was the stable, and the Count Otto roused one of his grooms."Saddle me Flavia," said he. "Flavia is a mare who, I fancy, fulfilsyour requirements."Wogan had no complaint to make of her. She had the manners of acourtier. It seemed, too, that she had no complaint to make of Mr.Wogan. Count Otto laid his hand upon the bridle and led the mare withher rider along a lane through a thicket of trees and to a small gate."Here, then, we part, Chevalier," said he. "No doubt to-morrow I shallsit down at my table, knowing that I talked a deal of folly illbefitting an old man. No doubt I shall be aware that my books are thetrue happiness after all. But to-night--well, to-night I would fain betwenty years of age, that I might fling my books over the hedge and rideout with you, my sword at my side, my courage in my hand, into theworld's highway. I will beg you to keep the mare as a token and a memoryof our meeting. There is no better beast, I believe, in Christendom."Wogan was touched by the old gentleman's warmth."Count," said Wogan, "I will gladly keep your mare in remembrance ofyour great goodwill to a stranger. But there is one better beast inChristendom.""Indeed? And which is that?""Why, sir, the black horse which the lady I shall marry will ride intomy city of dreams." And so he rode off upon his way. The morning wasjust beginning to gleam pale in the east. Here was a night passed whichhe had not thought to live through, and he was still alive to help thechosen woman imprisoned in the hollow of the hills at Innspruck. Woganhad reason to be grateful to that old man who stood straining his eyesafter him. There was something pathetical in his discontent with hissecluded life which touched Wogan to the heart. Wogan was not sure thatin the morning the old man would know that the part he had chosen was,after all, the best. Besides, Wogan had between his knees the mostfriendly and intelligent beast which he had ridden since that morningwhen he met Lady Featherstone on the road to Bologna. But he had soonother matters to distract his thoughts. However easily Flavia canteredor trotted she could not but sharply remind him of his wounds. He hadforty miles to travel before he could reach Schlestadt; and in thevillages on the road there was gossip that day of a man with a tormentedface who rode rocking in his saddle as though the furies were at hisback.CHAPTER VIIIThe little town of Schlestadt went to bed betimes. By ten o'clock itsburghers were in their night-caps. A belated visitor going home at thathour found his footsteps ring upon the pavement with surprising echoes,and traversed dark street after dark street, seeing in each window,perhaps, a mimic moon, but no other light unless his path chanced to liethrough Herzogstrasse. In that street a couple of windows on the firstfloor showed bright and unabashed, and the curious passer-by coulddetect upon the blind the shadows of men growing to monstrous giants anddwindling to pigmies according as they approached or retired from thelamp in the room.There were three men in that room booted as for a journey. Their dressmight have misled one into the belief that they were merchants, buttheir manner of wearing it proclaimed them soldiers. Of the three, one,a short, spare man, sat at the table with his head bent over a slip ofpaper. His peruke was pushed back from his forehead and showed that thehair about his temples was grey. He had a square face of some strength,and thoughtful eyes.The second of the three stood by the window. He was, perhaps, a fewyears younger, thirty-six an observer might have guessed to the other'sforty, and his face revealed a character quite different. His featureswere sharp, his eyes quick; if prudence was the predominating quality ofthe first, resource took its place in the second. While the first mansat patiently at the table, this one stood impatiently at the window.Now he lifted the blind, now he dropped it again.The third sat in front of the fire with his face upturned to theceiling. He was a tall, big man with mighty legs which sprawled one oneach side of the hearth. He was the youngest of the three by five years,but his forehead at this moment was so creased, his mouth so pursed up,his cheeks so wrinkled, he had the look of sixty years. He puffed andbreathed very heavily; once or twice he sighed, and at each sigh hischair creaked under him. Major O'Toole of Dillon's regiment wasthinking."Gaydon," said he, suddenly.The man at the table looked up quickly."Misset."The man at the window turned impatiently."I have an idea."Misset shrugged his shoulders.Gaydon said, "Let us hear it."O'Toole drew himself up; his chair no longer creaked, it groaned andcracked."It is a lottery," said he, "and we have made our fortunes. We three arethe winners, and so our names are not crossed out.""But I have put no money in a lottery," objected Gaydon."Nor I," said Misset."And where should I find money either?" said O'Toole. "But Charles Woganhas borrowed it for us and paid it in, and so we're all rich men.What'll I buy with it?"Misset paced the room."The paper came four days ago?" he said."Yes, in the morning.""Five days, then," and he stood listening. Then he ran to the window andopened it. Gaydon followed him and drew up the blind. Both men listenedand were puzzled."That's the sound of horseshoes," said Gaydon."But there's another sound keeping pace with the horseshoes," saidMisset.O'Toole leaned on their shoulders, crushing them both down upon the sillof the window."It is very like the sound a gentleman makes when he reels home from atavern."Gaydon and Misset raised themselves with a common effort springing froma common thought and shot O'Toole back into the room."What if it is?" began Misset."He was never drunk in his life," said Gaydon."It's possible that he has reformed," said O'Toole; and the three menprecipitated themselves down the stairs.The drunkard was Wogan; he was drunk with fatigue and sleeplessness andpain, but he had retained just enough of his sober nature to spare atired mare who had that day served him well.The first intimation he received that his friends were on the watch wasO'Toole's voice bawling down the street to him."Is it a lottery? Tell me we're all rich men," and he felt himselfgrasped in O'Toole's arms."I'll tell you more wonderful things than that," stammered Wogan, "whenyou have shown me the way to a stable.""There's one at the back of the house," said Gaydon. "I'll take thehorse.""No," said Wogan, stubbornly, and would not yield the bridle to Gaydon.O'Toole nodded approval."There are two things," said he, "a man never trusts to his friends.One's his horse; t' other's his wife."Wogan suddenly stopped and looked at O'Toole. O'Toole answered the lookloftily."It is a little maxim of philosophy. I have others. They come to me inthe night."Misset laughed. Wogan walked on to the stable. It was a long building,and a light was still burning. Moreover, a groom was awake, for the doorwas opened before they had come near enough to knock. There were twelvestalls, of which nine were occupied, and three of the nine horses stoodready saddled and bridled.Wogan sat down upon a corn-bin and waited while his mare was groomed andfed. The mare looked round once or twice in the midst of her meal,twisting her neck as far as her halter allowed."I am not gone yet, my lady," said he, "take your time."Wogan made a ghostly figure in the dim shadowy light. His face was of anextraordinary pallor; his teeth chattered; his eyes burned. Gaydonlooked at him with concern and said to the groom, "You can take thesaddles off. We shall need no horses to-night."The four men returned to the house. Wogan went upstairs first. Gaydonheld back the other two at the foot of the stairs."Not a word, not a question, till he has eaten, or we shall have him inbed for a twelvemonth. Misset, do you run for a doctor. O'Toole, seewhat you can find in the larder."Wogan sat before the fire without a word while O'Toole spread the tableand set a couple of cold partridges upon it and a bottle of red wine.Wogan ate mechanically for a little and afterwards with some enjoyment.He picked the partridges till the bones were clean, and he finished thebottle of wine. Then he rose to his feet with a sigh of something verylike to contentment and felt along the mantel-shelf with his hands.O'Toole, however, had foreseen his wants and handed him a pipe newlyfilled. While Wogan was lighting the tobacco, Misset came back into theroom with word that the doctor was out upon his last rounds, but wouldcome as soon as he had returned home. The four men sat down about thefire, and Wogan reached out his hand and felt O'Toole's arm."It is you," he said. "There you are, the three of you, my good friends,and this is Schlestadt. But it is strange," and he laughed a little tohimself and looked about the room, assuring himself that this indeed wasGaydon's lodging."You received a slip of paper?" said he."Four days back," said Gaydon."And understood?""That we were to be ready.""Good.""Then it's not a lottery," murmured O'Toole, "and we've drawn noprizes.""Ah, but we are going to," cried Wogan. "We are safe here. No one canhear us; no one can burst in. But I am sure of that. Misset knows thetrick that will make us safe from interruption, eh?"Misset looked blankly at Wogan."Why, one can turn the key," said he."To be sure," said Wogan, with a laugh of admiration for that device ofwhich he had bethought himself, and which he ascribed to Misset, "ifthere's a key; but if there's no key, why, a chair tilted against thedoor to catch the handle, eh?"Misset locked the door, not at all comprehending that device, andreturned to his seat."We are to draw the greatest prize that ever was drawn," resumed Wogan,and he broke off."But is there a cupboard in the room? No matter; I forgot that this isGaydon's lodging, and Gaydon's not the man to overlook a cupboard."Gaydon jumped up from his chair."But upon my word there is a cupboard," he cried, and crossing to acorner of the room he opened a door and looked in. Wogan laughed againas though Gaydon's examination of the cupboard was a very good joke."There will be nobody in it," he cried. "Gaydon will never feel a handgripping the life out of his throat because he forgot to search acupboard."The cupboard was empty, as it happened. But Gaydon had left the door ofthe street open when he went out to meet Wogan; there had been time andto spare for any man to creep upstairs and hide himself had there been aman in Schlestadt that night minded to hear. Gaydon returned to hischair."We are to draw the biggest prize in all Europe," said Wogan."There!" cried O'Toole. "Will you be pleased to remember when next Ihave an idea that I was right?""But not for ourselves," added Wogan.O'Toole's face fell."Oh, we are to hand it on to a third party," said he."Yes.""Well, after all, that's quite of a piece with our luck.""Who is the third party?" asked Misset."The King."Misset started up from his chair and leaned forward, his hands upon thearms."The King," said O'Toole; "to be sure, that makes a difference."Gaydon asked quietly, "And what is the prize?""The Princess Clementina," said Wogan. "We are to rescue her from herprison in Innspruck."Even Gaydon was startled."We four!" he exclaimed."We four!" repeated Misset, staring at Wogan. His mouth was open; hiseyes started from his head; he stammered in his speech. "We four againsta nation, against half Europe!"O'Toole simply crossed to a corner of the room, picked up his sword andbuckled it to his waist."I am ready," said he.Wogan turned round in his chair and smiled."I know that," said he. "So are we all--all ready; is not that so, myfriends? We four are ready." And he looked to Misset and to Gaydon."Here's an exploit, if we but carry it through, which even antiquitywill be at pains to match! It's more than an exploit, for it has thesanctity of a crusade. On the one side there's tyranny, oppression,injustice, the one woman who most deserves a crown robbed of it. And onthe other--""There's the King," said Gaydon; and the three brief words seemedsomehow to quench and sober Wogan."Yes," said he; "there's the King, and we four to serve him in hisneed. We are few, but in that lies our one hope. They will never lookfor four men, but for many. Four men travelling to the shrine of Lorettowith the Pope's passport may well stay at Innspruck and escape a closeattention.""I am ready," O'Toole repeated."But we shall not start to-night. There's the passport to be got, a planto be arranged.""Oh, there's a plan," said O'Toole. "To be sure, there's always a plan."And he sat down again heavily, as though he put no faith in plans.Misset and Gaydon drew their chairs closer to Wogan's and instinctivelylowered their voices to the tone of a whisper."Is her Highness warned of the attempt?" asked Gaydon."As soon as I obtained the King's permission," replied Wogan, "I hurriedto Innspruck. There I saw Chateaudoux, the chamberlain of the Princess'smother. Here is a letter he dropped in the cathedral for me to pick up."He drew the letter from his fob and handed it to Gaydon. Gaydon read itand handed it to Misset. Misset nodded and handed it to O'Toole, whoread it four times and handed it back to Gaydon with a flourish of thehand as though the matter was now quite plain to him."Chateaudoux has a sweetheart," said he, sententiously. "Very good; I donot think the worse of him."Gaydon glanced a second time through the letter."The Princess says that you must have the Prince Sobieski's writtenconsent.""I went from Innspruck to Ohlau," said Wogan. "I had some trouble, andthe reason of my coming leaked out. The Countess de Berg suspected itfrom the first. She had a friend, an Englishwoman, Lady Featherstone,who was at Ohlau to outwit me.""Lady Featherstone!" said Misset. "Who can she be?"Wogan told them of his first meeting with Lady Featherstone on theFlorence road, but he knew no more about her, and not one of the threeknew anything at all."So the secret's out," said Gaydon. "But you outstripped it.""Barely," said Wogan. "Forty miles away I had last night to fight for mylife.""But you have the Prince's written consent?" said Misset."I had last night, but I made a spill of it to light my pipe. There weresix men against me. Had that been found on my dead body, why, there wasproof positive of our attempt, and the attempt foiled by suresafeguards. As it is, if we lie still a little while, their fears willcease and the rumour become discredited."Misset leaned across Gaydon's arm and scanned the letter."But her Highness writes most clearly she will not move without thatsure token of her father's consent."Wogan drew from his breast pocket a snuff-box made from a singleturquoise."Here's a token no less sure. It was Prince Sobieski's New Year's giftto me,--a jewel unique and in an unique setting. This must persuade her.His father, great King John of Poland, took it from the Grand Vizier'stent when the Turks were routed at Vienna."O'Toole reached out his hand and engulfed the jewel."Sure," said he, "it is a pretty sort of toy. It would persuade anywoman to anything so long as she was promised it to hang about her neck.You must promise it to the Princess, but not give it to her--no, lestwhen she has got it she should be content to remain in Innspruck. Iknow. You must promise it."Wogan bowed to O'Toole's wisdom and took back the snuff-box. "I will notforget to promise it," said he."But here's another point," said Gaydon. "Her Highness, the Princess'smother, insists that a woman shall attend upon her daughter, and whereshall we find a woman with the courage and the strength?""I have thought of that," said Wogan. "Misset has a wife. By theluckiest stroke in the world Misset took a wife this last spring."There was at once a complete silence. Gaydon stared into the fire,O'Toole looked with intense interest at the ceiling, Misset buried hisface in his hands. Wogan was filled with consternation. Was Misset'swife dead? he asked himself. He had spoken lightly, laughingly, and hewent hot and cold as he recollected the raillery of his words. He sat inhis chair shocked at the pain which he had caused his friend. Moreover,he had counted surely upon Mrs. Misset.Then Misset raised his head from his hands and in a trembling voice hesaid slowly, "My boy would only live to serve his King. Why should henot serve his King before he lives? My wife will say the like."There was a depth of quiet feeling in his words which Wogan would neverhave expected from Misset; and the words themselves were words which hefelt no man, no king, however much beloved, however generous to hisservants, had any right to expect. They took Wogan's breath away, andnot Wogan's only, but Gaydon's and O'Toole's, too. A longer silence thanbefore followed upon them. The very simplicity with which they had beenuttered was startling, and made those three men doubt at the firstwhether they had heard aright.O'Toole was the first to break the silence."It is a strange thing that there never was a father since Adam who wasnot absolutely sure in his heart that his first-born must be a boy. Whenyou come to think philosophically about it, you'll see that if fathershad their way the world would be peopled with sons with never a bit ofa lass in any corner to marry them."O'Toole's reflection, if not a reason for laughter, made a pretext forit, at which all--even Misset, who was a trifle ashamed of his displayof feeling--eagerly caught. Wogan held his hand out and claspedMisset's."That was a great saying," said he, "but so much sacrifice is not to beaccepted."Misset, however, was firm. His wife, he said, though naturally timid,could show a fine spirit on occasion, and would never forgive one ofthem if she was left behind. He argued until a compromise was reached.Misset should lay the matter openly before his wife, and the fourcrusaders, to use Wogan's term, would be bound by her decision."So you may take it that matter's settled," said Misset. "There will befive of us.""Six," said Wogan."There's another man to join us, then," said Gaydon. "I have it. Yourservant, Marnier.""No, not Marnier, nor any man. Listen. It is necessary that when onceher Highness is rescued we must get so much start as will make pursuitvain. We shall be hampered with a coach, and a coach will travel slowlyon the passes of Tyrol. The pursuers will ride horses; they must notcome up with us. From Innspruck to Italy, if we have never an accident,will take us at the least four days; it will take our pursuers three. Wemust have one clear day before her Highness's evasion is discovered.Now, the chief magistrate of Innspruck visits her Highness's apartmentstwice a day,--at ten in the morning and at ten of the night. ThePrincess must be rescued at night; and if her escape is discovered inthe morning she will never reach Italy, she will be behind the barsagain.""But the Princess's mother will be left," said Gaydon. "She can pleadthat her daughter is ill.""The magistrate forces his way into the very bedroom. We must take withus a woman who will lie in her Highness's bed with the curtains drawnabout her and a voice so weak with suffering that she cannot raise itabove a whisper, with eyes so tired from sleeplessness she cannot bear alight near them. Help me in this. Name me a woman with the fortitude tostay behind."Gaydon shook his head."She will certainly be discovered. The part she plays in the escape mustcertainly be known. She will remain for the captors to punish as theywill. I know no woman.""Nay," said Wogan; "you exaggerate her danger. Once the escape isbrought to an issue, once her Highness is in Bologna safe, the Emperorcannot wreak vengeance on a woman; it would be too paltry." And now hemade his appeal to Misset."No, my friend," Misset replied. "I know no woman with the fortitude.""But you do," interrupted O'Toole. "So do I. There's no difficultywhatever in the matter. Mrs. Misset has a maid.""Oho!" said Gaydon."The maid's name is Jenny.""Aha!" said Wogan."She's a very good friend of mine.""O'Toole!" cried Misset, indignantly. "My wife's maid--a very goodfriend of yours?""Sure she is, and you didn't know it," said O'Toole, with a chuckle. "Iam the cunning man, after all. She would do a great deal for me wouldJenny.""But has she courage?" asked Wogan."Faith, her father was a French grenadier and her mother a _vivandiere_.It would be a queer thing if she was frightened by a little matter oflying in bed and pretending to be someone else.""But can we trust her with the secret?" asked Gaydon."No!" exclaimed Misset, and he rose angrily from his chair. "My wife'smaid--O'Toole--O'Toole--my wife's maid. Did ever one hear the like?""My friend," said O'Toole, quietly, "it seems almost as if you wished toreflect upon Jenny's character, which would not be right."Misset looked angrily at O'Toole, who was not at all disturbed. Then hesaid, "Well, at all events, she gossips. We cannot take her. She wouldtell the whole truth of our journey at the first halt.""That's true," said O'Toole.Then for the second time that evening he cried, "I have an idea.""Well?""We'll not tell her the truth at all. I doubt if she would come if wetold it her. Jenny very likely has never heard of her Highness thePrincess, and I doubt if she cares a button for the King. Besides, shewould never believe but that we were telling her a lie. No. We'll makeup a probable likely sort of story, and then she'll believe it to be thetruth.""I have it," cried Wogan. "We'll tell her that we are going to abduct anheiress who is dying for love of O'Toole, and whose merciless parentsare forcing her into a loveless, despicable marriage with a totteringpantaloon."O'Toole brought his hand down upon the arm of the chair."There's the very story," he cried. "To be sure, you are a great man,Charles. The most probable convincing story that was ever invented! Oh!but you'll hear Jenny sob with pity for the heiress and Lucius O'Toolewhen she hears it. It will be a bad day, too, for the merciless parentswhen they discover Jenny in her Highness's bed. She stands six feet inher stockings.""Six feet!" exclaimed Wogan."In her stockings," returned O'Toole. "Her height is her one vanity.Therefore in her shoes she is six feet four.""Well, she must take her heels off and make herself as short as shecan.""You will have trouble, my friend, to persuade her to that," saidO'Toole."Hush!" said Gaydon. He rose and unlocked the door. The doctor wasknocking for admission below. Gaydon let him in, and he dressed Wogan'swounds with an assurance that they were not deep and that a few days'quiet would restore him."I will sleep the night here if I may," said Wogan, as soon as thedoctor had gone. "A blanket and a chair will serve my turn."They took him into Gaydon's bedroom, where three beds were ranged."We have slept in the one room and lived together since your messagecame four days ago," said Gaydon. "Take your choice of the beds, forthere's not one of us has so much need of a bed as you."Wogan drew a long breath of relief."Oh! but it's good to be with you," he cried suddenly, and caught atGaydon's arm. "I shall sleep to-night. How I shall sleep!"He stretched out his aching limbs between the cool white sheets, andwhen the lamp was extinguished he called to each of his three friends byname to make sure of their company. O'Toole answered with a grunt on hisright, Misset on his left, and Gaydon from the corner of the room."But I have wanted you these last three days!" said Wogan. "To-morrowwhen I tell you the story of them you will know how much I have wantedyou."They got, however, some inkling of Wogan's need before the morrow came.In the middle of the night they were wakened by a wild scream and heardWogan whispering in an agony for help. They lighted a lamp and saw himlying with his hand upon his throat and his eyes starting from his headwith horror."Quick," said he, "the hand at my throat! It's not the letter so much,it's my life they want.""It's your own hand," said Gaydon, and taking the hand he found itlifeless. Wogan's arm in that position had gone to sleep, as the sayingis. He had waked suddenly in the dark with the cold pressure at histhroat, and in the moment of waking was back again alone in the inn nearAugsburg. Wogan indeed needed his friends.CHAPTER IXThe next morning Wogan was tossing from side to side in a high fever.The fever itself was of no great importance, but it had consequences ofa world-wide influence, for it left Wogan weak and tied to his bed; sothat it was Gaydon who travelled to Rome and obtained the Pope'spassport. Gaydon consequently saw what otherwise Wogan would have seen;and Gaydon, the cautious, prudent Gaydon, was careful to avoid making aninopportune discovery, whereas Wogan would never have rested until hehad made it.Gaydon stayed in Rome a week, lying snug and close in a lodging only onestreet removed from that house upon the Tiber where his King lived.Secrets had a way of leaking out, and Gaydon was determined that thisone should not through any inattention of his. He therefore never wentabroad until dark, and even then kept aloof from the house whichoverlooked the Tiber. His business he conducted through his servant,sending him to and fro between Edgar, the secretary, and himself. Oneaudience of his King alone he asked, and that was to be granted him onthe day of his departure from Rome.Thus the time hung very heavily upon him. From daybreak to dusk he wascooped within a little insignificant room which looked out upon a littleinsignificant street. His window, however, though it promised littlediversion, was his one resource. Gaydon was a man of observation, andfound a pleasure in guessing at this and that person's business from hisappearance, his dress, and whether he went fast or slow. So he satsteadily at his window, and after a day or two had passed he began to bepuzzled. The moment he was puzzled he became interested. On the secondday he drew his chair a little distance back from the window andwatched. On the third day he drew his chair close to the window, but atthe side and against the wall. In this way he could see everything thathappened and everyone who passed, and yet remain himself unobserved.Almost opposite to his window stood a small mean house fallen intoneglect and disrepair. The windows were curtained with dust, many of thepanes were broken, the shutters hung upon broken hinges, the paint waspeeling from the door. The house had the most melancholy aspect of longdisuse. It seemed to belong to no one and to be crumbling pitifully toruin like an aged man who has no friends. Yet this house had its uses,which Gaydon could not but perceive were of a secret kind. On the veryfirst day that Gaydon sat at his window a man, who seemed from his dressto be of a high consideration, came sauntering along that sordidthoroughfare, where he seemed entirely out of place, like a butterflyon the high seas. To Gaydon's surprise he stopped at the door, gave acautious look round, and rapped quickly with his stick. At once the doorof that uninhabited house was opened. The man entered, the door wasclosed upon him, and a good hour by Gaydon's watch elapsed before it wasopened again to let him out. In the afternoon another man came and wasadmitted with the same secrecy. Both men had worn their hats drawn downupon their foreheads, and whereas one of them held a muffler to hisface, the other had thrust his chin within the folds of his cravat.Gaydon had not been able to see the face of either. After nightfall heremarked that such visits became more frequent. Moreover, they wererepeated on the next day and the next. Gaydon watched, but never got anynearer to a solution of the mystery. At the end of the sixth day he wasmore puzzled and interested than ever, for closely as he had watched hehad not seen the face of any man who had passed in and out of that door.But he was to see a face that night.At nine o'clock a messenger from Edgar, the secretary, brought him apackage which contained a letter and the passport for these six daysdelayed. The letter warned him that Edgar himself would come to fetchhim in the morning to his audience with James. The passport gaveauthority to a Flemish nobleman, the Count of Cernes, to make apilgrimage to Loretto with his wife and family. The name of Warner hadserved its turn and could no longer be employed.As soon as the messenger had gone, Gaydon destroyed Edgar's letter, putthe passport safely away in his breast, and since he had not left hisroom that day, put on his hat. Being a prudent man with a turn foreconomy, he also extinguished his lamp. He had also a liking for freshair, so he opened the window, and at the same moment the door of thehouse opposite was opened. A tall burly man with a lantern in his handstepped out into the street; he was followed by a slight man of a shortstature. Both men were wrapped in their cloaks, but the shorter onetripped on a break in the road and his cloak fell apart. His companionturned at once and held his lantern aloft. Just for a second the lighttherefore flashed upon a face, and Gaydon at his dark window caught aglimpse of it. The face was the face of his King.Gaydon was more than ever puzzled. He had only seen the face for aninstant; moreover, he was looking down upon it, so that he might bemistaken. He felt, however, that he was not, and he began to wonder atthe business that could take his King to this mysterious house. Butthere was one thing of which he was sure amidst all his doubts, Rome wasnot the safest city in the world for a man to walk about at nights. HisKing would be none the worse off for a second guardian who would follownear enough to give help and far enough for discretion. Gaydon went downhis stairs into the street. The lantern twinkled ahead; Gaydon followedit until it stopped before a great house which had lights burning hereand there in the windows. The smaller man mounted the steps and wasadmitted; his big companion with the lantern remained outside.Gaydon, wishing to make sure of his conjectures one way or the other,walked quickly past him and stole a glance sideways at his face. But theman with the lantern looked at Gaydon at the same moment. Their eyesmet, and the lantern was immediately held aloft."It is Major Gaydon."Gaydon had to make the best of the business. He bowed."Mr. Whittington, I think.""Sir," said Whittington, politely, "I am honoured by your memory. Formyself, I never forget a face though I see it but for a moment betweenthe light and the dark, but I do not expect the like from myacquaintances. We did meet, I believe, in Paris? You are of Dillon'sregiment?""And on leave in Rome," said Gaydon, a trifle hastily."On leave?" said Whittington, idly. "Well, so far as towns go, Rome isas good as another, though, to tell the truth, I find them all quiteunendurable. Would I were on leave! but I am pinned here, a watchmanwith a lantern. I do but lack a rattle, though, to be sure, I could notspring it. We are secret to-night, major. Do you know what house thisis?""No," replied Gaydon. "But I am waited for and will bid you good-night."He had a thought that the Chevalier, since he would be secret, hadchosen his watchman rather ill. He had no wish to pry, and so was forreturning to his lodging; but that careless, imprudent man, Whittington,would not lose a companion so easily. He caught Gaydon by the arm."Well, it is the house of Maria Vittoria, Mademoiselle de Caprara, theheiress of Bologna, who has only this evening come to Rome. And so nolater than this evening I am playing link-boy, appointed by letterspatent, one might say. But what will you? Youth is youth, whether in aploughboy or a--But my tongue needs a gag. Another word, and I had saidtoo much. Well, since you will be going, good-night. We shall meet, nodoubt, in a certain house that overlooks the Tiber.""Hardly," said Gaydon, "since I leave Rome to-morrow.""Indeed? You leave Rome to-morrow?" said Whittington. "I would I were asfortunate," and he jerked his thumb dolefully towards the CapraraPalace. Gaydon hesitated for a moment, considering whether or not heshould ask Whittington to be silent upon their meeting. But hedetermined the man was too incautious in his speech. If he begged himnot to mention Gaydon's presence in Rome, he would remember it the moresurely, and if nothing was said he might forget it. Gaydon wished himgood-night and went back to his lodging, walking rather moodily.Whittington looked after him and chuckled.Meanwhile, in a room of the house two people sat,--one the slight,graceful man who had accompanied Whittington and whom Gaydon hadcorrectly guessed to be his King, the other, Maria Vittoria de Caprara.The Chevalier de St. George was speaking awkwardly with a voice whichbroke. Maria listened with a face set and drawn. She was a girl both infeatures and complexion of a remarkable purity. Of colour, but for herred lips, she had none. Her hair was black, her face of a clear pallorwhich her hair made yet more pale. Her eyes matched her hair, and wereso bright and quick a starry spark seemed to glow in the depths of them.She was a poet's simile for night.The Chevalier ended and sat with his eyes turned away. Maria Vittoriadid not change her attitude, nor for a while did she answer, but thetears gathered in her eyes and welled over. They ran down her cheeks;she did not wipe them away, she did not sob, nor did her face alter fromits fixity. She did not even close her eyes. Only the tears rained downso silently that the Prince was not aware of them. He had even a thoughtas he sat with his head averted that she might have shown a trifle moreof distress, and it was almost with a reproach upon his lips that heturned to her. Never was a man more glad that he had left a wordunspoken. This silent grief of tears cut him to the heart."Maria!" he cried, and moved towards her. She made no gesture to repelhim, she did not move, but she spoke in a whisper."His Holiness the Pope had consented to our marriage. What would I nothave done for you?"The Chevalier stooped over her and took her hand. The hand remainedinert in his."Maria!""Would that I were poor! Would that I were powerless! But I am rich--sorich. I could have done so much. I am alone--so much alone. What would Inot have done for you?""Maria!"His voice choked upon the word, his lips touched her hair, and sheshivered from head to foot. Then her hand tightened fast upon his; shedrew him down almost fiercely until he sank upon his knees by her side;she put an arm about his shoulder and held him to her breast."But you love me," she said quickly. "Tell me so! Say, 'I love you, Ilove you, I love you.' Oh that we both could die, you saying it, Ihearing it,--die to-night, like this, my arm about you, your faceagainst my heart! My lord, my lord!" and then she flung him from her,holding him at arm's length. "Say it with your eyes on mine! I can seethough the tears fall. I shall never hear the words again afterto-night. Do not stint me of them; let them flow just as these tearsflow. They will leave no more trace than do my tears.""Maria, I love you," said the Chevalier. "How I do love you!" He tookher hands from his shoulders and pressed his forehead upon them. Sheleaned forward, and in a voice so low it seemed her heart waswhispering, not her mouth, she made her prayer."Say that you have no room in your thoughts except for me. Say that youhave no scrap of love--" He dropped her hands and drew away; she caughthim to her. "No, no! Say that you have no scrap of love to toss to thewoman there in Innspruck!""Maria!" he exclaimed."Hush!" said she, with a woful smile. "To-morrow you shall love her;to-morrow I will not ask your eyes to dwell on mine or your hand toquiver as it touches mine. But to-night love no one but me."For answer he kissed her on the lips. She took his head between herhands and gave the kiss back, gently as though her lips feared to bruisehis, slowly as though this one moment must content her for all her life.Then she looked at him for a little, and with a childish movement thatwas infinitely sad she laid his face side by side with hers so that hischeek touched hers."Shall I tell you my thought?" she asked. "Shall I dare to tell you it?""Tell it me!""God has died to-night. Hush! Do not move! Do not speak! Perhaps theworld will slip and crumble if we but stay still." And they remainedthus cheek to cheek silent in the room, staring forward with eyes wideopen and hopeful. The very air seemed to them a-quiver withexpectation. They, too, had an expectant smile upon their lips. Butthere was no crack of thunder overhead, no roar of a slipping world.[Illustration: "CHEEK TO CHEEK, SILENT IN THE ROOM, STARING FORWARD WITHEYES WIDE OPEN AND HOPEFUL."--_Page 136_.] The Chevalier was the firstto move."But we are children," he cried, starting up. "Is it not strange thevery pain which tortures us because we are man and woman should sink usinto children? We sit hoping that a miracle will split the world inpieces! This is the Caprara Palace; Whittington drowses outside over hislantern; and to-morrow Gaydon rides with his passport northwards toCharles Wogan."The name hurt Maria Vittoria like a physical torture. She beat her handstogether with a cry, "I hate him! I hate him!""Yet I have no better servant!""Speak no good word of him in my ears! He robs me of you.""He risks his life for me.""I will pray that he may lose it.""Maria!"The Chevalier started, thrilled and almost appalled by the violence ofher passion."I do pray," she cried. "Every fibre in me tingles with the prayer. Oh,I hate him! Why did you give him leave to rescue her?""Could I refuse? I did delay him; I did hesitate. Only to-day Gaydonreceives the passport, and even so I have delayed too long. Indeed,Maria, I dare not think of the shame, the danger, her Highness hasendured for me, lest my presence here, even for this farewell, shouldtoo bitterly reproach me."At that all Maria Vittoria's vehemence left her. She fell to beseechingsand entreaties. With her vehemence went also her dignity. She droppedupon her knees and dragged herself across the room to him. To James herhumility was more terrible than her passion, for passion had alwaysdistinguished her, and he was familiar with it; but pride had alwaysgone hand in hand with it. He stepped forward and would have raised herfrom the ground, but Maria would have none of his help; she crouched athis feet pleading."You told me business would call you to Spain. Go there! Stay there! Fora little--oh, not for long! But for a month, say, after your Princesscomes triumphing into Bologna. Promise me that! I could not bear thatyou should meet her as she comes. There would be shouts; I can hearthem. No, I will not have it! I can see her proud cursed face a-flush.No! You think too much of what she has suffered. If I could havesuffered too! But suffering, shame, humiliation, these fall to women,always have fallen. We have learnt to bear them so that we feel themless than you. My dear lord, believe me! Her suffering is no greatthing. If we love we welcome it! Each throb of pain endured for lovebecomes a thrill of joy. If I could have suffered too!"It was strange to hear this girl with the streaming eyes and tormentedface bewail her fate in that she had not won that great privilege ofsuffering. She knelt on the ground a splendid image of pain, and longedfor pain that she might prove thereby how little a thing she made of it.The Chevalier drew a stool to her side and seating himself upon itclasped her about the waist. She laid her cheek upon his knee just as adog will do."Sweetheart," said he, "I would have no woman suffer a pang for me had Imy will of the world. But since that may not be, I do not believe thatany woman could be deeper hurt than you are now.""Not Clementina?""No."Maria uttered a little sigh. Her pain gave her a sort of ownership ofthe man who caused it. "Nor can she love as deep," she continuedquietly. "A Sobieski from the snows! Love was born here in Italy. Sherobs me of you. I hate her." Then she raised her face eagerly. "CharlesWogan may fail.""You do not know him.""The cleverest have made mistakes and died for them.""Wogan makes mistakes like another, but somehow gets the better of themin the end. There was a word he said to me when he begged for mypermission. I told him his plan was a mere dream. He answered he woulddream it true; he will.""You should have waked him. You were the master, he the servant. Youwere the King.""And when can the King do what he wills instead of what he must? Maria,if you and I had met before I sent Charles Wogan to search out a wifefor me--"Maria Vittoria knelt up. She drew herself away."He chose her as your wife?""If only I had had time to summon him back!""He chose her--Charles Wogan. How I hate him!""I sent him to make the choice.""And he might have gone no step beyond Bologna. There was I not a miledistant ready to his hand! But I was too mean, too despicable--""Maria, hush!" And the troubled voice in which he spoke rang with somuch pain that she was at once contrite with remorse."My lord, I hurt you, so you see how I am proven mean. Give me your handand laugh to me; laugh with your heart and eyes and lips. I am jealousof your pain. I am a woman. I would have it all, gather it all into mybosom, and cherish each sharp stab like a flower my lover gives to me. Iam glad of them. They are flowers that will not wither. Add a kiss,sweetheart, the sharpest stab, and so the chief flower, the very rose offlowers. There, that is well," and she rose from her knees and turnedaway. So she stood for a little, and when she turned again she wore uponher face the smile which she had bidden rise in his."Would we were free!" cried the Chevalier."But since we are not, let us show brave faces to the world and hide ourhearts. I do wish you all happiness. But you will go to Spain. There'sa friend's hand in warrant of the wish."She held out a hand which clasped his firmly without so much as atremor."Good-night, my friend," said she. "Speak those same words to me, and noword more. I am tired with the day's doings. I have need of sleep, oh,great need of it!"The Chevalier read plainly the overwhelming strain her counterfeit offriendliness put upon her. He dared not prolong it. Even as he looked ather, her lips quivered and her eyes swam."Good-night, my friend," said he.She conducted him along a wide gallery to the great staircase where herlackeys waited. Then he bowed to her and she curtsied low to him, but noword was spoken by either. This little comedy must needs be played inpantomime lest the actors should spoil it with a show of broken hearts.Maria Vittoria went back to the room. She could have hindered Wogan ifshe had had the mind. She had the time to betray him; she knew of hispurpose. But the thought of betrayal never so much as entered herthoughts.She hated him, she hated Clementina, but she was loyal to her King. Shesat alone in her palace, her chin propped upon her hands, and in alittle in her wide unblinking eyes the tears gathered again and rolleddown her cheeks and on her hands. She wept silently and without amovement, like a statue weeping.The Chevalier found Whittington waiting for him, but the candle in hislantern had burned out."I have kept you here a wearisome long time," he said with an effort. Itwas not easy for him to speak upon an indifferent matter."I had some talk with Major Gaydon which helped me to beguile it," saidWhittington."Gaydon!" exclaimed the Chevalier, "are you certain?""A man may make mistakes in the darkness," said Whittington."To be sure.""And I never had an eye for faces.""It was not Gaydon, then?" said the Chevalier."It may not have been," said Whittington, "and by the best of goodfortune I said nothing to him of any significance whatever."The Chevalier was satisfied with the reply. He had chosen the rightattendant for this nocturnal visit. Had Gaydon met with a more observantman than Whittington outside the Caprara Palace, he might have got anumber of foolish suspicions into his head.Gaydon, however, was at that moment in his bed, saying to himself thatthere were many matters concerning which it would be an impertinence forhim to have one meddlesome thought. By God's blessing he was a soldierand no politician. He fell asleep comforted by that conclusion.In the morning Edgar, the Chevalier's secretary, came privately to him."The King will receive you now," said he. "Let us go.""It is broad daylight. We shall be seen.""Not if the street is empty," said Edgar, looking out of the window.The street, as it chanced, was for the moment empty. Edgar crossed thestreet and rapped quickly with certain pauses between the raps on thedoor of that deserted house into which Gaydon had watched men enter. Thedoor was opened. "Follow me," said Edgar. Gaydon followed him into abare passage unswept and with discoloured walls. A man in a little hutchin the wall opened and closed the door with a string.Edgar walked forward to the end of the passage with Gaydon at his heels.The two men came to a flight of stone steps, which they descended. Thesteps led to a dark and dripping cellar with no pavement but the mud,and that depressed into puddles. The air was cold and noisome; the wallsto the touch of Gaydon's hand were greasy with slime. He followed Edgaracross the cellar into a sort of tunnel. Here Edgar drew an end ofcandle from his pocket and lighted it. The tunnel was so low thatGaydon, though a shortish man, could barely hold his head erect. Hefollowed Edgar to the end and up a flight of winding steps. The air grewwarmer and dryer. They had risen above ground, the spiral wound withinthe thickness of a wall. The steps ended abruptly; there was no doorvisible; in face of them and on each side the bare stone walls enclosedthem. Edgar stooped down and pressed with his finger on a roundinsignificant discolouration of the stone. Then he stood up again."You will breathe no word of this passage, Major Gaydon," said he. "Thehouse was built a century ago when Rome was more troubled than it isto-day, but the passage was never more useful than now. Men fromEngland, whose names it would astonish you to know, have trodden thesesteps on a secret visit to the King. Ah!" From the wall before theirfaces a great slab of the size of a door sank noiselessly down anddisclosed a wooden panel. The panel slid aside. Edgar and Gaydon steppedinto a little cabinet lighted by a single window. The room was empty.Gaydon took a peep out of the window and saw the Tiber eddying beneath.Edgar went to a corner and touched a spring. The stone slab rose fromits grooves; the panel slid back across it; at the same moment the doorof the room was opened, and the Chevalier stepped across the threshold.Gaydon could no longer even pretend to doubt who had walked withWhittington to the Caprara Palace the night before. It was none of hisbusiness, however, he assured himself. If his King dwelt with emphasisupon the dangers of the enterprise, it was not his business to remarkupon it or to be thereby disheartened. The King said very graciouslythat he would hold the major and his friends in no less esteem if by anymisfortune they came back empty-handed. That was most kind of him, butit was none of Gaydon's business. The King was ill at ease and looked asthough he had not slept a wink the livelong night. Well, swollen eyesand a patched pallid face disfigure all men at times, and in any casethey were none of Gaydon's business.He rode out of Rome that afternoon as the light was failing. He rode ata quick trot, and did not notice at the corner of a street a bigstalwart man who sauntered along swinging his stick by the tassel with avacant look of idleness upon the passers-by. He stopped and directed thesame vacant look at Gaydon.But he was thinking curiously, "Will he tell Charles Wogan?"The stalwart man was Harry Whittington.Gaydon, however, never breathed a word about the Caprara Palace when hehanded the passport to Charles Wogan at Schlestadt. Wogan was sittingpropped up with pillows in a chair, and he asked Gaydon many questionsof the news at Rome, and how the King bore himself."The King was not in the best of spirits," said Gaydon."With this," cried Wogan, flourishing the passport, "we'll find a meansto hearten him."Gaydon filled a pipe and lighted it."Will you tell me, Wogan," he asked,--"I am by nature curious,--was itthe King who proposed this enterprise to you, or was it you who proposedit to the King?"The question had an extraordinary effect. Wogan was startled out of hischair."What do you mean?" he exclaimed fiercely. There was something more thanfierceness in the words,--an accent of fear, it almost seemed to Gaydon.There was a look almost of fear in his eyes, as though he had let someappalling secret slip. Gaydon stared at him in wonder, and Woganrecovered himself with a laugh. "Faith," said he, "it is a question toperplex a man. I misdoubt but we both had the thought about the sametime. 'Wogan,' said he, 'there's the Princess with a chain on her leg,so to speak,' and I answered him, 'A chain's a galling sort of thing toa lady's ankle.' There was little more said if I remember right."Gaydon nodded as though his curiosity was now satisfied. Wogan's alarmwas strange, no doubt, strange and unexpected like the Chevalier's visitto the Caprara Palace. Gaydon had a glimpse of dark and troubled waters,but he turned his face away. They were none of his business.CHAPTER XIn an hour, however, he returned out of breath and with a face whitefrom despair. Wogan was still writing at his table, but at his firstglance towards Gaydon he started quickly to his feet, and altogetherforgot to cover over his sheet of paper. He carefully shut the door."You have bad news," said he."There was never worse," answered Gaydon. He had run so fast, he was sodiscomposed, that he could with difficulty speak. But he gasped his badnews out in the end."I went to my brother major to report my return. He was entertaining hisfriends. He had a letter this morning from Strasbourg and he read italoud. The letter said a rumour was running through the town that theChevalier Wogan had already rescued the Princess and was being hotlypursued on the road to Trent."If Wogan felt any disquietude he was careful to hide it. He satcomfortably down upon the sofa."I expected rumour would be busy with us," said he, "but never that itwould take so favourable a shape.""Favourable!" exclaimed Gaydon."To be sure, for its falsity will be established to-morrow, andridicule cast upon those who spread and believed it. False alarms arethe proper strategy to conceal the real assault. The rumour does us aservice. Our secret is very well kept, for here am I in Schlestadt, andpeople living in Schlestadt believe me on the road to Trent. I will goback with you to the major's and have a laugh at his correspondent.Courage, my friend. We will give our enemies a month. Let them cry wolfas often as they will during that month, we'll get into the fold all themore easily in the end."Wogan took his hat to accompany Gaydon, but at that moment he heardanother man stumbling in a great haste up the stairs. Misset broke intothe room with a face as discomposed as Gaydon's had been."Here's another who has heard the same rumour," said Wogan."It is more than a rumour," said Misset. "It is an order, and mostperemptory, from the Court of France, forbidding any officer of Dillon'sregiment to be absent for more than twenty-four hours from his duties onpain of being broke. Our secret's out. That's the plain truth of thematter."He stood by the table drumming with his fingers in a great agitation.Then his fingers stopped. He had been drumming upon Wogan's sheet ofpaper, and the writing on the sheet had suddenly attracted his notice.It was writing in unusually regular lines. Gaydon, arrested by Misset'schange from restlessness to fixity, looked that way for a second, too,but he turned his head aside very quickly. Wogan's handwriting was noneof his business."We will give them a month," said Wogan, who was conjecturing at themotive of this order from the Court of France. "No doubt we aresuspected. I never had a hope that we should not be. The Court ofFrance, you see, can do no less than forbid us, but I should not besurprised if it winks at us on the sly. We will give them a month.Colonel Lally is a friend of mine and a friend of the King. We will getan abatement of that order, so that not one of you shall be cashiered.""I don't flinch at that," said Misset, "but the secret's out.""Then we must use the more precautions," said Wogan. He had no doubtwhatever that somehow he would bring the Princess safely out of herprison to Bologna. It could not be that she was born to be wasted.Misset, however, was not so confident upon the matter."A strange, imperturbable man is Charles Wogan," said he to Gaydon andO'Toole the same evening. "Did you happen by any chance to cast your eyeover the paper I had my hand on?""I did not," said Gaydon, in a great hurry. "It was a private letter, nodoubt.""It was poetry. There's no need for you to hurry, my friend. It was morethan mere poetry, it was in Latin. I read the first line on the page,and it ran, '_Te, dum spernit, arat novus accola; max ubi cultam_--'"Gaydon tore his arm away from Misset. "I'll hear no more of it," hecried. "Poetry is none of my business.""There, Dick, you are wrong," said O'Toole, sententiously. Both Missetand Gaydon came to a dead stop and stared. Never had poetry so strangean advocate. O'Toole set his great legs apart and his arms akimbo. Herocked himself backwards and forwards on his heels and toes, while abenevolent smile of superiority wrinkled across his broad face from earto ear. "Yes, I've done it," said he; "I've written poetry. It is athing a polite gentleman should be able to do. So I did it. It wasn't inLatin, because the young lady it was written to didn't understand Latin.Her name was Lucy, and I rhymed her to 'juicy,' and the pleasure of itmade her purple in the face. There were to have been four lines, butthere were never more than three and a half because I could not think ofa suitable rhyme to O'Toole. Lucy said she knew one, but she would nevertell it me."Wogan's poetry, however, was of quite a different kind, and had Gaydonlooked at it a trifle more closely, he would have experienced somerelief. It was all about the sorrows and miseries of his unfortunaterace and the cruel oppression of England. England owed all its great mento Ireland and was currish enough never to acknowledge the debt. Woganalways grew melancholy and grave-faced on that subject when he had theleisure to be idle. He thought bitterly of the many Irish officers sentinto exile and killed in the service of alien countries; his sense ofinjustice grew into a passionate sort of despair, and the despairtumbled out of him in sonorous Latin verse written in the Virgilianmeasure. He wrote a deal of it during this month of waiting, and a longwhile afterwards sent an extract to Dr. Swift and received the greatman's compliments upon its felicity, as anyone may see for himself inthe doctor's correspondence.How the month passed for James Stuart in Rome may be partly guessed froma letter which was brought to Wogan by Michael Vezozzi, the Chevalier'sbody-servant.The letter announced that King George of England had offered thePrincess Clementina a dowry of L100,000 if she would marry the Prince ofBaden, and that the Prince of Baden with a numerous following wasalready at Innspruck to prosecute his suit."I do not know but what her Highness," he wrote, "will receive the bestconsolation for her sufferings on my account if she accepts sofavourable a proposal, rather than run so many hazards as she must needsdo as my wife. For myself, I have been summoned most urgently into Spainand am travelling thither on the instant."Wogan could make neither head nor tail of the letter. Why should theKing go to Spain at the time when the Princess Clementina might beexpected at Bologna? It was plain that he did not expect Wogan wouldsucceed. He was disheartened. Wogan came to the conclusion that therewas the whole meaning of the letter. He was, however, for other reasonsglad to receive it."It is very well I have this letter," said he, "for until it came I hadno scrap of writing whatever to show either to her Highness or, what Itake to be more important, to her Highness's mother," and he went backto his poetry.Misset and his wife, on the other hand, drove forward to the town ofColmar, where they bought a travelling carriage and the necessaries forthe journey. Misset left his wife at Colmar, but returned everytwenty-four hours himself. They made the excuse that Misset had won adeal of money at play and was minded to lay it out in presents to hiswife. The stratagem had a wonderful success at Schlestadt, especiallyamongst the ladies, who could do nothing day and night but praise intheir husbands' hearing so excellent a mode of disposing of one'swinnings.O'Toole spent his month in polishing his pistols and sharpening hissword. It is true that he had to persuade Jenny to bear them company,but that was the work of an afternoon. He told her the story of the richAustrian heiress, promised her a hundred guineas and a damask gown, gaveher a kiss, and the matter was settled.Jenny passed her month in a delicious excitement. She was a daughter ofthe camp, and had no fears whatever. She was a conspirator; she wastrusted with a tremendous secret; she was to help the beautiful andenormous O'Toole to a rich and beautiful wife; she was to outwit an oldcurmudgeon of an uncle; she was to succour a maiden heart-broken andimprisoned. Jenny was quite uplifted. Never had a maid-servant been bornto so high a destiny. Her only difficulty was to keep silence, and whenthe silence became no longer endurable she would run on some excuse oranother to Wogan and divert him with the properest sentiments."To me," she would cry, "there's nothing sinful in changing clotheswith the beautiful mistress of O'Toole. Christian charity says we are tomake others happy. I am a Christian, and as to the uncle he can go tothe devil! He can do nothing to me but talk, and I don't understand hisstupid language."Jenny was the one person really happy during this month. It was Wogan'seffort to keep her so, for she was the very pivot of his plan.There remains yet one other who had most reason of all to repine at thedelay, the Princess Clementina. Her mother wearied her with perpetualcomplaints, the Prince of Baden, who was allowed admittance to thevilla, persecuted her with his attentions; she knew nothing of what wasplanned for her escape, and the rigorous confinement was not relaxed. Itwas not a happy time for Clementina. Yet she was not entirely unhappy. Athought had come to her and stayed with her which called the colour toher cheeks and a smile to her lips. It accounted to her for the delay;her pride was restored by it; because of it she became yet more patientwith her mother, more gentle with the Prince of Baden, moregood-humoured to her gaolers. It sang at her heart like a bird; itlightened in her grey eyes. It had come to her one sleepless night, andthe morning had not revealed it as a mere phantasy born of the night.The more she pondered it, the more certain was she of its truth. HerKing was coming himself at the hazard of his life to rescue her.CHAPTER XITherefore she waited in patience. It was still winter at Innspruck,though the calendar declared it to be spring. April was budless andcold, a month of storms; the snow drifted deep along the streets and M.Chateaudoux was much inconvenienced during his promenades in theafternoon. He would come back with most reproachful eyes for Clementinain that she so stubbornly clung to her vagabond exile and refused sofine a match as the Prince of Baden. On the afternoon of the 25th,however, Clementina read more than reproach in his eyes, more thandiscomfort in the agitation of his manner. The little chamberlain wasafraid.Clementina guessed the reason of his fear."He has come!" she cried. The exultation of her voice, the deep breathshe drew, the rush of blood to her face, and the sudden dancing light inher eyes showed how much constraint she had set upon herself. She waslike an ember blown to a flame. "You were stopped in your walk. You havea message for me. He has come!"The height of her joy was the depth of Chateaudoux's regret."I was stopped in my walk," said he, "but not by the Chevalier Wogan.Who it was I do not know.""Can you not guess?" cried Clementina."I would not trust a stranger," said her mother."Would you not?" asked Clementina, with a smile. "Describe him to me.""His face was wrinkled," said Chateaudoux."It was disguised.""His figure was slight and not over-tall."M. Chateaudoux gave a fairly accurate description of Gaydon."I know no one whom the portrait fits," said the mother, and againClementina cried,--"Can you not guess? Then, mother, I will punish you. For though Iknow--in very truth, I know--I will not tell you." She turned back toChateaudoux. "Well, his message? He did fix a time, a day, an hour, formy escape?""The 27th is the day, and at eight o'clock of the night.""I will be ready.""He will come here to fetch your Highness. Meanwhile he prays yourHighness to fall sick and keep your bed.""I can choose my malady," said Clementina. "It will not all becounterfeit, for indeed I shall fall sick of joy. But why must I fallsick?""He brings a woman to take your place, who, lying in bed with thecurtains drawn, will the later be discovered."The Princess's mother saw here a hindrance to success and eagerly shespoke of it."How will the woman enter? How, too, will my daughter leave?"M. Chateaudoux coughed and hemmed in a great confusion. He explained indelicate hints that he himself was to bribe the sentry at the door tolet her pass for a few moments into the house. The Princess broke into alaugh."Her name is Friederika, I'll warrant," she cried. "My poor Chateaudoux,they _will_ give you a sweetheart. It is most cruel. Well, Friederika,thanks to the sentry's fellow-feeling for a burning heart, Friederikaslips in at the door.""Which I have taken care should stand unlatched. She changes clotheswith your Highness, and your Highness--""Slips out in her stead.""But he is to come for you, he says," exclaimed her mother. "And howwill he do that? Besides, we do not know his name. And there must be afitting companion who will travel with you. Has he that companion?""Your Highness," said Chateaudoux, "upon all those points he bade me sayyou should be satisfied. All he asks is that you will be ready at thetime."A gust of hail struck the window and made the room tremble. Clementinalaughed; her mother shivered."The Prince of Baden," said she, with a sigh. Clementina shrugged hershoulders."A Prince," said Chateaudoux, persuasively, "with much territory to hisprinceliness.""A vain, fat, pudgy man," said Clementina."A sober, honest gentleman," said the mother."A sober butler to an honest gentleman," said Clementina."He has an air," said Chateaudoux."He has indeed," replied Clementina, "as though he handed himself upon aplate to you, and said, 'Here is a miracle. Thank God for it!' Well, Imust take to my bed. I am very ill. I have a fever on me, and that'struth."She moved towards the door, but before she had reached it there came aknocking on the street door below.Clementina stopped; Chateaudoux looked out of the window."It is the Prince's carriage," said he."I will not see him," exclaimed Clementina."My child, you must," said her mother, "if only for the last time.""Each time he comes it is for the last time, yet the next day sees himstill in Innspruck. My patience and my courtesy are both outworn.Besides, to-day, now that I have heard this great news we have waitedfor--how long? Oh, mother, oh, mother, I cannot! I shall betray myself."The Princess's mother made an effort."Clementina, you must receive him. I will have it so. I am your mother.I will be your mother," she said in a tremulous tone, as though the mereutterance of the command frightened her by its audacity.Clementina was softened on the instant. She ran across to her mother'schair, and kneeling by it said with a laugh, "So you shall. I would notbarter mothers with any girl in Christendom. But you understand. I ampledged in honour to my King. I will receive the Prince, but indeed Iwould he had not come," and rising again she kissed her mother on theforehead.She received the Prince of Baden alone. He was a stout man of muchceremony and took some while to elaborate a compliment upon Clementina'saltered looks. Before, he had always seen her armed and helmeted withdignity; now she had much ado to keep her lips from twitching into asmile, and the smile in her eyes she could not hide at all. The Princetook the change to himself. His persistent wooing had not been after allin vain. He was not, however, the man to make the least of hissufferings in the pursuit which seemed to end so suitably to-day."Madam," he said with his grandest air, "I think to have given you someproof of my devotion. Even on this inclement day I come to pay my dutythough the streets are deep in snow.""Oh, sir," exclaimed Clementina, "then your feet are wet. Never run suchrisks for me. I would have no man weep on my account though it were onlyfrom a cold in the head."The Prince glanced at Clementina suspiciously. Was this devotion? Hepreferred to think so."Madam, have no fears," said he, tenderly, wishing to set the anxiouscreature at her ease. "I drove here in my carriage.""But from the carriage to the door you walked?""No, madam, I was carried."Clementina's lips twitched again."I would have given much to have seen you carried," she said demurely."I suppose you would not repeat the--No, it would be to ask too much.Besides, from my windows here in the side of the house I could not see."And she sighed deeply.The fatuous gentleman took comfort from the sigh."Madam, you have but to say the word and your windows shall lookwhichever way you will."Clementina, however, did not say the word. She merely sighed again. ThePrince thought it a convenient moment to assert his position."I have stayed a long while in Innspruck, setting my constancy, whichbade me stay, above my dignity, which bade me go. For three months Ihave stayed,--a long while, madam.""I do not think three years could have been longer," said Clementina,with the utmost sympathy."So now in the end I have called my pride to help me.""The noblest gift that heaven has given a man," said Clementina,fervently.The Prince bowed low; Clementina curtsied majestically.[Illustration: THE PRINCE STRUTTED TO THE WINDOW; CLEMENTINA SOLEMNLYKEPT PACE WITH HIM."--_Page 161._]"Will you give me your hand," said he, "as far as your window?""Certainly, sir, and out of it."Clementina laid her hand in his. The Prince strutted to the window;Clementina solemnly kept pace with him."What do you see? A sentinel fixed there guarding you. At the doorstands a second sentinel. Answer me as I would be answered, your windowand your door are free. Refuse me, and I travel into Italy. My trunksare already packed.""Neatly packed, I hope," said Clementina. Her cheek was flushed; herlips no longer smiled. But she spoke most politely, and the Prince wasat a loss."Will you give me your hand," said she, "as far as my table?"The Prince doubtfully stretched out his hand, and the couple paced in astately fashion to Clementina's table."What do you see upon my table?" said she, with something of thePrince's pomposity."A picture," said he, reluctantly."Whose?""The Pretender's," he answered with a sneer."The King's," said she, pleasantly. "His picture is fixed there guardingme. Against my heart there lies a second. I wish your Highness all speedto Italy."She dropped his hand, bowed to him again in sign that the interview wasended. The Prince had a final argument."You refuse a dowry of L100,000. I would have you think of that.""Sir, you think of it for both of us."The Prince drew himself up to his full stature."I have your answer, then?""You have, sir. You had it yesterday, and if I remember right the daybefore.""I will stay yet two more days. Madam, you need not fear. I shall notimportune you. I give you those two days for reflection. Unless I hearfrom you I shall leave Innspruck--""In two days' time?" suddenly exclaimed Clementina."On the evening of the 27th," said the Prince.Clementina laughed softly in a way which he did not understand. She wasaltogether in a strange, incomprehensible mood that afternoon, and whenhe learnt next day that she had taken to her bed he was not surprised.Perhaps he was not altogether grieved. It seemed right that she shouldbe punished for her stubbornness. Punishment might soften her.But no message came to him during those two days, and on the morning ofthe 27th he set out for Italy.At the second posting stage, which he reached about three of theafternoon, he crossed a hired carriage on its way to Innspruck. Thecarriage left the inn door as the Prince drove up to it. He noticed thegreat size of the coachman on the box, he saw also that a man and twowomen were seated within the carriage, and that a servant rode onhorseback by the door. The road, however, was a busy one; day and nighttravellers passed up and down; the Prince gave only a passing scrutinyto that carriage rolling down the hill to Innspruck. Besides, he wasacquainted neither with Gaydon, who rode within the carriage, nor withWogan, the servant at the door, nor with O'Toole, the fat man on thebox.At nightfall the Prince came to Nazareth, a lonely village amongst themountains with a single tavern, where he thought to sleep the night.There was but one guest-room, however, which was already bespoken by aFlemish lady, the Countess of Cernes, who had travelled that morning toInnspruck to fetch her niece.The Prince grumbled for a little, since the evening was growing stormyand wild, but there was no remedy. He could not dispute the matter, forhe was shown the Countess's berlin waiting ready for her return. Aservant of the Count's household also had been left behind at Nazarethto retain the room, and this man, while using all proper civilities,refused to give up possession. The Prince had no acquaintance with theofficers of Dillon's Irish regiment, so that he had no single suspicionthat Captain Misset was the servant. He drove on for another stage,where he found a lodging.Meanwhile the hired carriage rolled into Innspruck, and a storm ofextraordinary violence burst over the country.CHAPTER XIIIn fact, just about the time when the Prince's horses were beingunharnessed from his carriage on the heights of Mount Brenner, the hiredcarriage stopped before a little inn under the town wall of Innspruckhard by the bridge. And half an hour later, when the Prince was sittingdown to his supper before a blazing fire and thanking his stars that onso gusty and wild a night he had a stout roof above his head, a man anda woman came out from the little tavern under the town wall anddisappeared into the darkness. They had the streets to themselves, forthat night the city was a whirlpool of the winds. Each separate chasm inthe encircling hills was a mouth to discharge a separate blast. Thewinds swept down into the hollow and charged in a riotous combat aboutthe squares and lanes; at each corner was an ambuscade, and everywherethey clashed with artilleries of hail and sleet.The man and woman staggered hand in hand and floundered in the deepsnow. They were soaked to the skin, frozen by the cold, and whipped bythe stinging hail. Though they bent their heads and bodies, though theyclung hand in hand, though they struggled with all their strength,there were times when they could not advance a foot and must needs waitfor a lull in the shelter of a porch. At such times the man wouldperhaps quote a line of Virgil about the cave of the winds, and thewoman curse like a grenadier. They, however, were not the only peoplewho were distressed by the storm.Outside the villa in which the Princess was imprisoned stood the twosentinels, one beneath the window, the other before the door. There wereicicles upon their beards; they were so shrouded in white they had thelook of snow men built by schoolboys. Their coats of frieze could notkeep out the searching sleet, nor their caps protect their ears from theintolerable cold. Their hands were so numbed they could not feel themuskets they held.The sentinel before the door suffered the most, for whereas hiscompanion beneath the window had nothing but the house wall before hiseyes, he, on his part, could see on the other side of the alley of treesthe red blinds of "The White Chamois," that inn which the Chevalier deSt. George had mentioned to Charles Wogan. The red blinds shone verycheery and comfortable upon that stormy night. The sentinel envied themen gathered in the warmth and light behind them, and cursed his ownmiserable lot as heartily as the woman in the porch did hers. The redblinds made it unendurable. He left his post and joined his companion."Rudolf," he said, bawling into his ear, "come with me! Our birds willnot fly away to-night."The two sentries came to the front of the house and stared at thered-litten blinds."What a night!" cried Rudolf. "Not a citizen would thrust his nose outof doors.""Not even the little Chateaudoux's sweetheart," replied the other, witha grin.They stared again at the red blinds, and in a lull of the wind a clockstruck nine."There is an hour before the magistrate comes," said Rudolf."You take that hour," said his companion; "I will have the hour afterthe magistrate has gone."Rudolf ran across to the inn. The sentinel at the door remained behind.Both men were pleased,--Rudolf because he had his hour immediately, hisfellow-soldier because once the magistrate had come and gone, he wouldtake as long as he pleased.Meanwhile the man and woman hand in hand drew nearer to the villa, butvery slowly. For, apart from the weather's hindrances, the woman's angerhad grown. She stopped, she fell down when there was no need to fall,she wept, she struggled to free her hand, and finally, when they hadtaken shelter beneath a portico, she sank down on the stone steps, andwith many oaths and many tears refused to budge a foot. Strangelyenough, it was not so much the inclemency of the night or the danger ofthe enterprise which provoked this obstinacy, as some outrage anddishonour to her figure."You may talk all night," she cried between her sobs, "about O'Toole andhis beautiful German. They can go hang for me! I am only a servant, Iknow. I am poor, I admit it. But poverty isn't a crime. It gives no onethe right to make a dwarf of me. No, no!"--this as Wogan bent down tolift her from the ground--"plague on you all! I will sit here and die;and when I am found frozen and dead perhaps you will be sorry for yourcruelty to a poor girl who wanted nothing better than to serve you."Here Jenny was so moved by the piteousness of her fate that her tearsbroke out again. She wept loudly. Wogan was in an extremity of alarmlest someone should pass, or the people of the house be aroused. Hetried most tenderly to comfort her. She would have none of theconsolations. He took her in his arms and raised her to her feet. Sheswore more loudly than she had wept, she kicked at his legs, she struckat his head with her fist. In another moment she would surely have criedmurder. Wogan had to let her sink back upon the steps, where she fell towhimpering."I am not beautiful, I know; I never boasted that I was; but I have afigure and limbs that a painter would die to paint. And what do you makeof me? A maggot, a thing all body like a nasty bear. Oh, curse the daythat I set out with such tyrants! A pretty figure of fun I should makebefore your beautiful German, covered with mud to the knees. No, youshall hang me first! Why couldn't O'Toole do his own work, the ninny, Ihate him! He's tall enough, the great donkey; but no, I must do it,who am shorter, and even then not short enough for him and you, but youmust drag me through the dirt without heels!"Wogan let her run on; he was at his wits' end what to do. All thisturmoil, these tears, these oaths and blows, came from nothing moreserious than this, that Jenny, to make her height less remarkable, mustwear no heels. It was ludicrous, it was absurd, but none the less thewhole expedition, carried to the very point of completion, must fail,utterly and irretrievably fail, because Jenny would not for one day gowithout her heels. The Princess must remain in her prison at Innspruck;the Chevalier must lose his wife; the exertions of Wogan and hisfriends, their risks, their ingenuity, must bear no fruit because Jennywould not show herself three inches short of her ordinary height.O'Toole had warned him there would be a difficulty; but that thedifficulty should become an absolute hindrance, should spoil a scheme ofso much consequence, that was inconceivable.Yet there was Jenny sobbing her heart out on the steps not half a milefrom the villa; the minutes were passing; the inconceivable thing wastrue. Wogan could have torn his hair in the rage of his despair. Hecould have laughed out loudly and passionately until even on that stormynight he brought the guard. He thought of the perils he had run, thedifficulties he had surmounted. He had outwitted the Countess de Bergand Lady Featherstone, he had persuaded the reluctant Prince Sobieski,he had foiled his enemies on the road to Schlestadt, he had made hisplans, he had gathered his friends, he had crept out with them fromStrasbourg, yet in the end they had come to Innspruck to be foiledbecause Jenny would not go without her heels. Wogan could have wept likeJenny.But he did not. On the contrary, he sat down by her side on the stepsand took her hand, gentle as a sheep."You are in the right of it, Jenny," said he, in a most remorsefulvoice.Jenny looked up."Yes," he continued. "I was in the wrong. O'Toole is the most selfishman in the whole world. Cowardly, too! But there never was a selfish manwho was not at heart a bit of a coward. Sure enough, sooner or later thecowardice comes out. It is a preposterous thing that O'Toole shouldthink that you and I are going to rescue his heiress for him while hesits at his ease by the inn fire. No; let us go back to him and tell himto his face the selfish cowardly man he is."It seemed, however, that Jenny was not entirely pleased to hear her ownsentiments so frankly uttered by Mr. Wogan. Besides, he seemed toexaggerate them, for she said with a little reluctance, "I would not saythat he was a coward.""But I would," exclaimed Wogan, hotly. "Moreover, I do. With all myheart I say it. A great lubberly monster of a coward. He is envious,too, Jenny."Jenny had by this time stopped weeping."Why envious?" she asked with an accent of rebellion which was very muchto Wogan's taste."It's as plain as the palm of my hand. Why should he make a dwarf ofyou, Jenny?--for it's the truth he has done that; he has made a littledwarf out of the finest girl in the land by robbing her of her heels."Jenny was on the point of interrupting with some indignation, but Woganwould not listen to her. "A dwarf," he continued, "it was your own word,Jenny. I could say nothing to comfort you when you spoke it, for it wasso true and suitable an epithet. A little dwarf he has made of you, allbody and no legs like a bear, a dwarf-bear, of course; and why, if it isnot that he envies you your figure and is jealous of it in a mean anddiscreditable way? Sure, he wants to have all the looks and to appearquite incomparable to the eyes of his beautiful German. So he makes adwarf of you, a little bear dwarf--"Jenny, however, had heard this phrase often enough by now. Sheinterrupted Wogan hotly, and it seemed her anger was now as muchdirected against him as it had been before against O'Toole."He is not envious," said she. "A fine friend he has in you, I amthinking. He has no need to be envious. Captain O'Toole could carry meto the house in his arms if he wished, which is more than you could doif you tried till midday to-morrow," and she turned her shoulder toWogan, who, in no way abashed by her contempt, cried triumphantly,--"But he didn't wish. He let you drag through the mud and snow withoutso much as a patten to keep you off the ground. Why? Tell me that,Jenny! Why didn't he wish?"Jenny was silent."You see, if he is not envious, he is at all events a coward," arguedWogan, "else he would have run his own risks and come in your stead.""But that would not have served," cried Jenny. It was her turn now tospeak triumphantly. "How could O'Toole have run away with his heiressand at the same time remained behind in her bed to escape suspicion, asI am to do?""I had forgotten that, to be sure," said Wogan, meekly.Jenny laughed derisively."O'Toole is the man with the head on his shoulders," said she."And a pitiful, calculating head it is," exclaimed Wogan. "Think of theinconvenience of your position when you are discovered to-morrow. Thinkof the angry uncle! O'Toole has thought of him and so keeps out of hisway. Here's a nice world, where hulking, shapeless giants like O'Toolehide themselves from angry uncles behind a dwarf-girl's petticoats. Bah!We will go back and kick O'Toole."Wogan rose to his feet. Jenny did not move; she sat and laughedscornfully."_You_ kick O'Toole! You might once, if he happened to be asleep. But hewould take you up by the scruff of the neck and the legs and beat yourface against your knees until you were dead. Besides, what do I care foran angry uncle! I am well paid to put up with his insults.""Well paid!" said Wogan, with a sneer. "A hundred guineas and a damaskgown! Three hundred guineas and a gown all lace and gold tags would notbe enough. Besides, I'll wager he has not paid you a farthing. He'llcheat you, Jenny. He's a rare bite is O'Toole. Between you and me,Jenny, he is a beggarly fellow!""He has already paid me half," cried Jenny. It was no knowledge toWogan, who, however, counterfeited a deal of surprise."Well," said he, "he has only done it to cheat you the more easily ofthe other fifty. We will go straight back and tell him that it coststhree hundred guineas, money down, and the best gown in Paris to turn afine figure of a girl into a dwarf-bear."He leaned down and took Jenny by the arm. She sprang to her feet andtwisted herself free."No," she said, "you can go back if you will and show him what a goodfriend you are to him. But I go on. The poor captain shall have oneperson in the world, though she's only a servant, to help him when hewants."Thus Wogan won the victory. But he was most careful to conceal it. Hewalked by her side humble as a whipped dog. If he had to point out theway, he did it with the most penitent air; when he offered his hand tohelp her over a snow-heap and she struck it aside, he merely bowed hishead as though her contempt was well deserved. He even whispered in herear in a trembling voice, "Jenny, you will not say a word to O'Tooleabout the remarks I made of him? He is a strong, hasty man. I know notwhat might come of it."Jenny sneered and shrugged her shoulders. She would not speak to Woganany more, and so they came silently into the avenue of trees between"The White Chamois" and the villa. The windows in the front of the villawere dark, and through the blinding snow-storm Wogan could not havedistinguished the position of the house at all but for the red blinds ofthe tavern opposite which shone out upon the night and gave the snowfalling before them a tinge of pink. Wogan crept nearer to the house andheard the sentinel stamping in the snow. He came back to Jenny andpointed the sentinel out to her."Give me a quarter of an hour so far as you can judge. Then pass thesentinel and go up the steps into the house. The sentinel is preparedfor your coming, and if he stops you, you must say 'Chateaudoux' in awhisper, and he will understand. You will find the door of the houseopen and a man waiting for you."Jenny made no answer, but Wogan was sure of her now. He left herstanding beneath the dripping trees and crept towards the side of thehouse. A sentry was posted beneath her Highness's windows, and throughthose windows he had to climb. He needed that quarter of an hour towait for a suitable moment when the sentry would be at the far end ofhis beat. But that sentry was fuddling himself with a vile spiritdistilled from the gentian flower in the kitchen of "The White Chamois."Wogan, creeping stealthily through the snow-storm, found the side of thehouse unguarded. The windows on the ground floor were dark; those on thefirst floor which lighted her Highness's apartments were ablaze. Henoticed with a pang of dismay that one of those lighted windows was wideopen to the storm. He wondered whether it meant that the Princess hadbeen removed to another lodging. He climbed on the sill of the lowerwindow; by the side of that window a stone pillar ran up the side of thehouse to the windows on the first floor. Wogan had taken note of thatpillar months back when he was hawking chattels in Innspruck. He set hishands about it and got a grip with his foot against the sash of thelower window. He was just raising himself when he heard a noise abovehim. He dropped back to the ground and stood in the fixed attitude of asentinel.A head appeared at the window, a woman's head. The light was behind,within the room, so that Wogan could not see the face. But the shape ofthe head, its gracious poise upon the young shoulders, the curve of theneck, the bright hair drawn backwards from the brows,--here were marksWogan could not mistake. They had been present before his eyes thesemany months. The head at the open window was the head of the Princess.Wogan felt a thrill run through his blood. To a lover the sight of hismistress is always unexpected, though he foreknows the very moment ofher coming. To Wogan the sight of his Queen had the like effect. He hadnot seen her since he had left Ohlau two years before with her promiseto marry the Chevalier. It seemed to him, though for this he had livedand worked up early and down late for so long, a miraculous thing thathe should see her now.She leaned forward and peered downwards into the lane. The lightstreamed out, bathing her head and shoulders. Wogan could see the snowfall upon her dark hair and whiten it; it fell, too, upon her neck, butthat it could not whiten. She leaned out into the darkness, and Woganset foot again upon the lower window-sill. At the same moment anotherhead appeared beside Clementina's, and a sharp cry rang out, a cry ofterror. Then both heads disappeared, and a heavy curtain swung acrossthe window, shutting the light in.Wogan remained motionless, his heart sinking with alarm. Had that crybeen heard? Had the wind carried it to the sentry at the door? Hewaited, but no sound of running footsteps came to his ears; the cry hadbeen lost in the storm. He was now so near to success that dangers whicha month ago would have seemed of small account showed most menacing andfatal."It was the Princess-mother who cried out," he thought, and was remindedthat the need of persuasions was not ended for the night with theconquest of Jenny. He had to convince the Princess-mother of hisauthority without a line of Prince Sobieski's writing to support him; hehad to overcome her timidity. But he was prepared for the encounter; hehad foreseen it, and had an argument ready for the Princess-mother,though he would have preferred to wring the old lady's neck. Her crymight spoil everything. However, it had not been heard, and since it hadnot been heard, Wogan was disposed to forgive it.For the window was still open, and now that the curtain was drawn no rayof light escaped from the room to betray the man who climbed into it.CHAPTER XIIIMeanwhile within the room the Princess-mother clung to Clementina. Theterror which her sharp cry had expressed was visible in her strained andstartled face. Her eyes, bright with terror, stared at the drawncurtain; she could not avert them; she still must gaze, fascinated byher fears; and her dry, whispering lips were tremulous."Heaven have mercy!" she whispered; "shut the window! Shut it fast!" andas Clementina moved in surprise, she clung the closer to her daughter."No, do not leave me! Come away! Jesu! here are we alone,--two women!""Mother," said Clementina, soothing her and gently stroking her hair, asthough she in truth was the mother and the mother her daughter, "there'sno cause for fear.""No cause for fear! I saw him--the sentry--he is climbing up. Ah!" andagain her voice rose to a cry as Wogan's foot grated on thewindow-ledge."Hush, mother! A cry will ruin us. It's not the sentinel," saidClementina.Clementina was laughing, and by her laughter the Princess-mother was insome measure reassured."Who is it, then?" she asked."Can you not guess?" said Clementina, incredulously. "It is so evident.Yet I would not have you guess. It is my secret, my discovery. I'll tellyou." She heard a man behind the curtain spring lightly from the windowto the floor. She raised her voice that he might know she had divinedhim. "Your sentinel is the one man who has the right to rescue me. Yoursentinel's the King."At that moment Wogan pushed aside the curtain."No, your Highness," said he, "but the King's servant."The Princess-mother dropped into a chair and looked at her visitor withdespair. It was not the sentinel, to be sure, but, on the other hand, itwas Mr. Wogan, whom she knew for a very insistent man with a greatliking for his own way. She drew little comfort from Mr. Wogan's coming.It seemed, too, that he was not very welcome to Clementina; for she drewback a step and in a voice which dropped and had a tremble ofdisappointment, "Mr. Wogan," she said, "the King is well served;" andshe stood there without so much as offering him her hand. Wogan had notcounted on so cold a greeting, but he understood the reason, and was notsure but what he approved of it. After all, she had encountered perilson the King's account; she had some sort of a justification to believethe King would do the like for her. It had not occurred to him orindeed to anyone before; but now that he saw the chosen woman so plainlywounded, he felt a trifle hot against his King for having disappointedher. He set his wits to work to dispel the disappointment."Your Highness, the truth is there are great matters brewing in Spain.His Majesty was needed there most urgently. He had to decide betweenInnspruck and Cadiz, and it seemed that he would honour your greatconfidence in him and at the same time serve you best--"Clementina would not allow him to complete the sentence. Her cheekflushed, and she said quickly,--"You are right, Mr. Wogan. The King is right. Mine was a girl's thought.I am ashamed of it;" and she frankly gave him her hand. Wogan was fairlywell pleased with his apology for his King. It was not quite the truth,no doubt, but it had spared Clementina a trifle of humiliation, and hadre-established the King in her thoughts. He bent over her hand and wouldhave kissed it, but she stopped him."No," said she, "an honest handclasp, if you please; for no woman canhave ever lived who had a truer friend," and Wogan, looking into herfrank eyes, was not, after all, nearly so well pleased with the untruthhe had told her. She was an uncomfortable woman to go about with shiftsand contrivances. Her open face, with its broad forehead and the clear,steady eyes of darkest blue, claimed truth as a prerogative. The blushwhich had faded from her cheeks appeared on his, and he began to babblesome foolish word about his unworthiness when the Princess-motherinterrupted him in a grudging voice,--"Mr. Wogan, you were to bring a written authority from the Prince myhusband."Wogan drew himself up straight."Your Highness," said he, with a bow of the utmost respect, "I was givensuch an authority."The Princess-mother held out her hand. "Will you give it me?""I said that I was given such an authority. But I have it no longer. Iwas attacked on my way from Ohlau. There were five men against me, allof whom desired that letter. The room was small; I could not run away;neither had I much space wherein to resist five men. I knew that were Ikilled and that letter found on me, your Highness would thereafter betoo surely guarded to make escape possible, and his Highness PrinceSobieski would himself incur the Emperor's hostility. So when I had madesure that those five men were joined against me, I twisted that letterinto a taper and before their faces lit my pipe with it."Clementina's eyes were fixed steadily and intently upon Wogan's face.When he ended she drew a deep breath, but otherwise she did not move.The Princess-mother, however, was unmistakably relieved. She spoke witha kindliness she had never shown before to Wogan; she even smiled athim in a friendly way."We do not doubt you, Mr. Wogan, but that written letter, giving mydaughter leave to go, I needs must have before I let her go. A father'sauthority! I cannot take that upon myself."Clementina took a quick step across to her mother's side."You did not hear," she said."I heard indeed that Mr. Wogan had burnt the letter.""But under what stress, and to spare my father and to leave me still agrain of hope. Mother, this gentleman has run great risks for me,--howgreat I did not know; even now in this one instance we can only guessand still fall short of the mark."The Princess-mother visibly stiffened with maternal authority."My child, without some sure sign the Prince consents, you must not go."Clementina looked towards Wogan for assistance. Wogan put his hand intohis pocket."That sure sign I have," said he. "It is a surer sign than any writtenletter; for handwriting may always be counterfeit. This could never be,"and he held out on the palm of his hand the turquoise snuff-box whichthe Prince had given him on New Year's day. "It is a jewel unique in allthe world, and the Prince gave it me. It is a jewel he treasured notonly for its value, but its history. Yet he gave it me. It was won bythe great King John of Poland, and remains as a memorial of the mostglorious day in all that warrior's glorious life; yet his son gave itme. With his own hands he put it into mine to prove to me with whatconfidence he trusted your Highness's daughter to my care. Thatconfidence was written large in the letter I burnt, but I am thinking itis engraved for ever upon this stone."The Princess-mother took the snuff-box reluctantly and turned it overand over. She was silent. Clementina answered for her."I am ready," she said, and she pointed to a tiny bundle on a chair inwhich a few clothes were wrapped. "My jewels are packed in the bundle,but I can leave them behind me if needs be."Wogan lifted up the bundle and laughed."Your Highness teaches a lesson to soldiers; for there is never aknapsack but can hold this and still have half its space to spare. Thefront door is unlatched?""M. Chateaudoux is watching in the hall.""And the hall's unlighted?""Yes.""Jenny should be here in a minute, and before she comes I must tell youshe does not know the importance of our undertaking. She is the servantto Mrs. Misset, who attends your Highness into Italy. We did not let herinto the secret. We made up a comedy in which you have your parts toplay. Your Highness," and he turned to Clementina, "is a rich Austrianheiress, deeply enamoured of Captain Lucius O'Toole.""Captain Lucius O'Toole!" exclaimed the mother, in horror. "My daughterenamoured of a Captain Lucius O'Toole!""He is one of my three companions," said Wogan, imperturbably."Moreover, he is six foot four, the most creditable lover in the world.""Well," said Clementina, with a laugh, "I am deeply enamoured of theengaging Captain Lucius O'Toole. Go on, sir.""Your parents are of a most unexampled cruelty. They will not smile uponthe fascinating O'Toole, but have locked you up on bread and water untilyou shall agree to marry a wealthy but decrepit gentleman ofeighty-three.""I will not," cried Clementina; "I will starve myself to death first. Iwill marry my six feet four or no other man in Christendom.""Clementina!" cried her mother, deprecatingly."But at this moment," continued Wogan, "there very properly appears thefairy godmother in the person of a romantical maiden aunt.""Oh!" said Clementina, "I have a romantical maiden aunt.""Yes," said Wogan, and turning with a bow to the Princess-mother; "yourHighness.""I?" she exclaimed, starting up in her chair."Your Highness has written an encouraging letter to Captain O'Toole,"resumed Wogan. The Princess-mother gasped, "A letter to CaptainO'Toole," and she flung up her hands and fell back in her chair."On the receipt of the letter Captain O'Toole gathers his friends,borrows a horse here, a carriage there, and a hundred guineas fromHeaven knows whom, comes to the rescue like a knight-errant, and retellsthe old story of how love laughs at locksmiths."As Wogan ended, the mother rose from her chair. It may have been thatshe revolted at the part she was to play; it may have been because afiercer gust shook the curtain and bellied it inwards. At all events sheflung the curtain aside; the snow drifted through the open window ontothe floor; outside the open window it was falling like a cascade, andthe air was icy."Mr. Wogan," she said, stubbornly working herself into a heat to makemore sure of her resolution, "my daughter cannot go to-night. To-morrow,if the sky clears, yes, but to-night, no. You do not know, sir, being aman. But my daughter has fasted through this Lent, and that leaves awoman weak. I do forbid her going, as her father would. The very dogsrunning the streets for food keep kennel on such a night. She must notgo."Wogan did not give way, though he felt a qualm of despair, knowing allthe stubbornness of which the weak are capable, knowing how imperviousto facts or arguments."Your Highness," he said quickly, "we are not birds of passage to ruleour flight by seasons. We must take the moment when it comes, and itcomes now. To-night your daughter can escape; for here's a night madefor an escape.""And for my part," cried Clementina, "I would the snow fell faster." Shecrossed to the open window and held out her hands to catch the flakes."Would they did not melt! I believe Heaven sends the snow to shelter me.It's the white canopy spread above my head, that I may go in state tomeet my King." She stood eager and exultant, her eyes shining, her cheekon fire, her voice thrilling with pride. She seemed not to feel thecold. She welcomed the hardships of wind and falling snow as heropportunity. She desired not only for escape, but also to endure.Wogan looked her over from head to foot, filled with pride andadmiration. He had made no mistake; he had plucked this rose of theworld to give to his King. His eyes said it; and the girl, reading them,drew a breath and rippled out a laugh of gladness that his trustedservant was so well content with her. But the Princess-mother stoodunmoved."My daughter cannot go to-night," she repeated resentfully. "I do forbidit."Wogan had his one argument. This one argument was his last resource. Hehad chosen it carefully with an eye to the woman whom it was topersuade. It was not couched as an inducement; it did not claim thedischarge of an obligation; it was not a reply to any definiteobjection. Such arguments would only have confirmed her in herstubbornness. He made accordingly an appeal to sentiment."Your Highness's daughter," said he, "spoke a minute since of thehazards my friends and I have run to compass her escape. As regards fourof us, the words reached beyond our deserts. For we are men. Suchhazards are our portion; they are seldom lightened by so high an aim.But the fifth! The words, however kind, were still below that fifthone's merits; for the fifth is a woman.""I know. With all my heart I thank her. With all my heart I pity her.""But there is one thing your Highness does not know. She runs ourrisks,--the risk of capture, the risk of the night, the storm, the snow,she a woman by nature timid and frail,--yet with never in all her lifeso great a reason for timidity, or so much frailty of health as now. Weventure our lives, but she ventures more."The mother bowed her head; Clementina looked fixedly at Wogan."Speak plainly, my friend," she said. "There are no children here.""Madam, I need but quote to you the words her husband used. For my part,I think that nobler words were never spoken, and with her whole heartshe repeats them. They are these: 'The boy would only live to serve hisKing; why should he not serve his King before he lives?'"The mother was still silent, but Wogan could see that the tearsoverbrimmed her eyes and rolled down her cheeks. Clementina was silentfor a while too, and stood with her eyes fixed thoughtfully on Wogan.Then she said gently,--"Her name."Wogan told her it, and she said no more; but it was plain that she wouldnever forget it, that she had written it upon her heart.Wogan waited, looking to the Princess, who drying her tears rose fromher chair and said with great and unexpected dignity,--"How comes it, sir, that with such servants your King still does not situpon his throne? My daughter shall not fall below the great example setto her. My fears are shamed by it. My daughter goes with you to-night."It was time that she consented, for even as Wogan flung himself upon hisknee and raised her hand, M. Chateaudoux appeared at the door with afinger on his lips, and behind him one could hear a voice grumbling andcursing on the stairs."Jenny," said Wogan, and Jenny stumbled into the room. "Quiet," said he;"you will wake the house.""Well, if you had to walk upstairs in the dark in these horribleshoes--""Oh, Jenny, your cloak, quick!""Take the thing! A good riddance to it; it's dripping wet, and weighs aton.""Dripping wet!" moaned the mother."I shall not wear it long," said Clementina, advancing from theembrasure of the window. Jenny turned and looked her over criticallyfrom head to foot. Then she turned away without a word and let the cloakfall to the ground. It fell about her feet; she kicked it viciouslyaway, and at the same time she kicked off one of those shoes of whichshe so much complained. Jenny was never the woman to mince her language,and to-night she was in her surliest mood. So she swore simply andheartily, to the mother's utter astonishment and indignation."Damn!" she said, hobbling across the room to the corner, whither hershoe had fallen. "There, there, old lady; don't hold your hands to yourears as though a clean oath would poison them!"The Princess-mother fell back in her chair."Does she speak to me?" she asked helplessly."Yes," said Wogan; and turning to Jenny, "This is the kind-heartedaunt."Jenny turned to Clementina, who was picking the cloak from the floor."And you are the beautiful heiress," she said sourly. "Well, if you aregoing to put that wet cloak on your shoulders, I wish you joy of thefirst kiss O'Toole gives you when you jump into his arms."The Princess-mother screamed; Wogan hastened to interfere."Jenny, there's the bedroom; to bed with you!" and he took out hiswatch. At once he uttered an exclamation of affright. Wogan hadmiscalculated the time which he would require. It had taken longer thanhe had anticipated to reach the villa against the storm; his conflictwith Jenny in the portico had consumed valuable minutes; he had been atsome pains to over-persuade the Princess-mother; Jenny herself amongstthe trees in the darkness had waited more than the quarter of an hourdemanded of her; Wogan himself, absorbed each moment in that moment'sparticular business,--now bending all his wits to vanquish Jenny, now tovanquish the Princess-mother,--even Wogan had neglected how the timesped. He looked at his watch. It was twenty-five minutes to ten, and atten the magistrate would be knocking at the door."I am ready," said Clementina, drawing the wet cloak about her shouldersand its hood over her head. She barely shivered under its wet heaviness."There's one more thing to be done before you go," said Wogan; butbefore he could say what that one thing was, Jenny, who had nowrecovered her shoe, ran across the room and took the beautiful heiressby both hands. Jenny was impulsive by nature. The Princess-mother'sdistress and Clementina's fearlessness made her suddenly ashamed thatshe had spoken so sourly."There, there, old lady," she said soothingly; "don't you fret. They arevery good friends your niece is going with." Then she drew Clementinaclose to her. "I don't wonder they are all mad about you, for I can'tbut say you are very handsome and richly worth the pains you haveoccasioned us." She kissed Clementina plump upon the cheek andwhispered in her ear, "O'Toole won't mind the wet cloak, my dear, whenhe sees you."Clementina laughed happily and returned her kiss with no less sincerity,if with less noise."Quick, Jenny," said Wogan, "to bed with you!"He pointed to the door which led to the Princess's bedroom."Now you must write a letter," he added to Clementina, in a low voice,as soon as the door was shut upon Jenny. "A letter to your mother,relieving her of all complicity in your escape. Her Highness will findit to-morrow night slipped under the cover of her toilette."Clementina ran to a table, and taking up a pen, "You think ofeverything," she said. "Perhaps you have written the letter."Wogan pulled a sheet of paper from his fob."I scribbled down a few dutiful sentiments," said he, "as we drove downfrom Nazareth, thinking it might save time.""Mother," exclaimed Clementina, "not content with contriving my escape,he will write my letters to you. Well, sir, let us hear what you havemade of it."Wogan dictated a most beautiful letter, in which a mother's claims forobedience were strongly set out--as a justification, one must suppose,for a daughter's disobedience. But Clementina was betrothed to hisMajesty King James, and that engagement must be ever the highestconsideration with her, on pain of forfeiting her honour. It wasaltogether a noble and stately letter, written in formal, irreproachablephrases which no daughter in the world would ever have written to amother. Clementina laughed over it, but said that it would serve. Woganlooked at his watch again. It was then a quarter to ten."Quick!" said he. "Your Highness will wait for me under the fourth treeof the avenue, counting from the end."He left the mother and daughter alone, that his presence might not checkthe tenderness of their farewell, and went down the stairs into the darkhall. M. Chateaudoux was waiting there, with his teeth chattering in theextremity of his alarm. Wogan unlatched the door very carefully and sawthrough the chink the sentry standing by the steps. The snow still fell;he was glad to note the only light was a white glimmering from the wasteof snow upon the ground."You must go out with her," Wogan whispered to Chateaudoux, "and speak aword to the sentry.""At any moment the magistrate may come," said Chateaudoux, though hetrembled so that he could hardly speak."All the more reason for the sentinel to let your sweetheart run home ather quickest step," said Wogan, and above him he heard Clementina comeout upon the landing. He crept up the stairs to her."Here is my hand," said he, in a low voice. She laid her own in his,and bending towards him in the darkness she whispered,--"Promise me it shall always be at my service. I shall need friends. I amyoung, and I have no knowledge. Promise me!"She was young indeed. The freshness of her voice, its little tremble ofmodesty, the earnestness of its appeal, carried her youth quite home toMr. Wogan's heart. She was sweet with youth. Wogan felt it more clearlyas they stood together in the darkness than when he had seen her plainlyin the lighted room, with youth mantling her cheeks and visible in thebuoyancy of her walk. Then she had been always the chosen woman. Wogancould just see her eyes, steady and mysteriously dark, shining at himout of the gloom, and a pang of remorse suddenly struck through him.That one step she was to take was across the threshold of a prison, itwas true, but a prison familiar and warm, and into a night of storm anddarkness and ice. The road lay before her into Italy, but it was a roadof unknown perils, through mountains deep in snow. And this escape ofto-night from the villa, this thunderous flight, with its hardships andits dangers, which followed the escape, was only the symbol of her life.She stepped from the shelter of her girlhood, as she stepped across thethreshold of the villa, into a womanhood dark with many trials,storm-swept and wandering. She might reach the queendom which was herdue, as the berlin in which she was to travel might--nay, surelywould--rush one day from the gorges into the plains and the sunlight ofItaly; but had Wogan travelled to Rome in Gaydon's place and talked withWhittington outside the Caprara Palace, it is very likely that she wouldnever have been allowed by him to start. Up till now he had thought onlyof her splendid courage, of the humiliation of her capture, of herwounded pride; she was the chosen woman. Now he thought of the girl, andwondered of her destiny, and was stricken with remorse."Promise me," she repeated, and her hand tightened upon his and clung toit. Wogan had no fine sentiments wherewith to answer her; but his voicetook a depth of sincerity and tenderness quite strange to her. Herfingers ceased to tremble.They went down into the hall. Chateaudoux, who had been waiting in anagony of impatience, opened the door and slipped out; Clementinafollowed him.The door was left ajar behind them, and Wogan in the hall sawChateaudoux speak with the sentinel, saw the sentinel run hurriedly toClementina, saw Clementina disappear into the snow. Chateaudoux ran backinto the hall."And you!" he asked, as he barred and locked the door. "The magistrateis coming. I saw the lights of the guard across the avenue."Clementina was outside in the storm; Wogan was within the house, and thelights of the guard were already near."I go by the way I came," said he; "I have time;" and he ran quickly upthe stairs. In the room he found the Princess-mother weeping silently,and again, as he saw this weak elderly woman left alone to her fears andforebodings, remorse took hold on him."Courage, madam," said he, as he crossed the room; "she goes to wed aking.""Sir, I am her mother," replied the Princess, gaining at this moment asuitable dignity from her tears. "I was wondering not of the King, butof the man the King conceals.""You need not, madam," said Wogan, who had no time for eulogies upon hismaster. "Take his servant's loyalty as the measure of his merits."He looked out of the window and suddenly drew back. He stood for amoment with a look of great fear upon his face. For the sentinel wasback at his post; Wogan dared not at this moment risk a struggle, andperhaps an outcry. Clementina was waiting under the avenue of trees;Wogan was within the house, and the lights of the guard were alreadyflaring in the roadway. Even as Wogan stood in the embrasure of thewindow, he heard a heavy knocking on the door.CHAPTER XIVWogan closed the window cautiously. The snow had drifted through and laymelting in a heap beneath the sill. He drew the curtain across theembrasure, and then he crossed to the bedroom door."Jenny," he whispered, "are you in bed?""Yes.""Lie close! Do not show your face nor speak. Only groan, and groan mostdelicately, or we are lost."He closed the door upon Jenny, and turning about came face to face withthe Princess-mother. She stood confronting him, a finger on her lips,and terror in her eyes; and he heard the street-door open and clang tobelow."The magistrate!" she whispered."Courage, your Highness. Keep them from the bed! Say that her eyes areweak and cannot bear the light."He slipped behind the curtain into the embrasure, picturing to himselfthe disposition of the room, lest he should have left behind a trifle tobetray him. He had in a supreme degree that gift of recollection whichtakes the form of a mental vision. He did not have to count over thedetails of the room; he summoned a picture of it to his mind, and sawit and its contents from corner to corner. And thus while the footstepsyet sounded on the stair, he saw Clementina's bundle lying forgotten ona couch. He darted from his hiding-place, seized it, and ran back. Hehad just sufficient and not a second more time, for the curtain had notceased to swing when the magistrate knocked, and without waiting for ananswer entered. He was followed by two soldiers, and these he ordered towait without the door."Your Highness," he said in a polite voice, and stopped abruptly. Itseemed to Wogan behind the curtain that his heart stopped at the samemoment and with no less abruptness. There was no evidence ofClementina's flight to justify that sudden silence. Then he grew faint,as it occurred to him that he had made Lady Featherstone'smistake,--that his boot protruded into the room. He clenched his teeth,expecting a swift step and the curtain to be torn aside. The window wasshut; he would never have time to open it and leap out and take hischance with the sentry underneath. He was caught in a trap, andClementina waited for him in the avenue, under the fourth tree. All waslost, it seemed, and by his own folly, his own confidence. Had he onlytold her of the tavern under the city wall, where the carriage stoodwith its horses harnessed in the shafts, she might still have escaped,though he was trapped. The sweat passed down his face. Yet no swift stepwas taken, nor was the curtain torn aside.For within the room the magistrate, a kindly citizen of Innspruck whohad no liking for this addition to his duties, stood gazing at thePrincess-mother with a respectful pity. It was the sight of hertear-stained face which had checked his words. For two days Clementinahad kept her bed, and the mother's tears alarmed him."Her Highness, your daughter, suffers so much?" said he."Sir, it is little to be wondered at."The magistrate bowed. That question was not one with which he had a mindto meddle."She still lies in bed?" said he, and he crossed to the door. The motherflung herself in the way."She lies in pain, and you would disturb her; you would flash yourlanterns in her eyes, that if perchance she sleeps, she may wake into aworld of pain. Sir, you will not.""Your Highness--""It is the mother who beseeches you. Sir, would you have me on myknees?"Wogan, but this moment recovered from his alarm, became again uneasy.Her Highness protested too much; she played her part in the comedy toostrenuously. He judged by the ear; the magistrate had the quivering,terror-stricken face before his eyes, and his pity deepened."Your Highness," he said, "I must pray you to let me pass. I haveGeneral Heister's orders to obey."The Princess-mother now gave Wogan reason to applaud her. She saw thatthe magistrate, for all his politeness, was quite inflexible."Go, then," she said with a quiet dignity which once before she hadshown that evening. "Since there is no humiliation to be spared us, takea candle, sir, and count the marks of suffering in my daughter's face;"and with her own hand she opened the bedroom door and stood aside."Madam, I would not press my duty an inch beyond its limits," said themagistrate. "I will stand in the doorway, and do you bid your daughterspeak."The Princess-mother did not move from her position."My child," she said.Jenny in the bedroom groaned and turned from one side to the other."You are in pain?"Jenny groaned again. The magistrate himself closed the door."Believe me," said he, "no one could more regret than I the incivilitiesto which I am compelled."He crossed the room. Wogan heard him and his men descending the stairs.He heard the door open and shut; he heard Chateaudoux draw the bolts.Then he stepped out from the curtain."Your Highness, that was bravely done," said he, and kneeling he kissedher hand. He went back into the embrasure, slipped the bundle over hisarm, and opened the window very silently. He saw the snow was stillfalling, the wind still moaning about the crannies and roaring alongthe streets. He set his knee upon the window-ledge, climbed out, anddrew the window to behind him.The Princess-mother waited in the room with her hand upon her heart. Shewaited, it seemed to her, for an eternity. Then she heard the sound of aheavy fall, and the clang of a musket against the wall of the villa. Butshe heard no cry. She ran to the window and looked out. But strain hereyes as she might, she could distinguish nothing in that blinding storm.She could not see the sentinel; nor was this strange, for the sentinellay senseless on the snow against the house-wall, and Mr. Wogan wasalready running down the avenue.Under the fourth tree he found Clementina; she took his arm, and theyset off together, wrestling with the wind, wading through the snow. Itseemed to Clementina that her companion was possessed by some new fear.He said no single word to her; he dragged her with a fierce grip uponher wrist; if she stumbled, he jerked her roughly to her feet. She sether teeth and kept pace with him. Only once did she speak. They had cometo a depression in the road where the melted snow had made a wide pool.Wogan leaped across it and said,--"Give me your hand! There's a white stone midway where you can set yourfoot."The Princess stepped as he bade her. The stone yielded beneath her treadand she stood ankle-deep in the water. Wogan sprang to her side andlifted her out. She had uttered no cry, and now she only laughed as shestood shivering on the further edge. It was that low musical,good-humoured laugh to which Wogan had never listened without a thrillof gladness, but it waked no response in him now."You told me of a white stone on which I might safely set my foot," shesaid. "Well, sir, your white stone was straw."They were both to remember these words afterwards and to make of them aparable, but it seemed that Wogan barely heard them now. "Come!" hesaid, and taking her arm he set off running again.Clementina understood that something inopportune, something terrible,had happened since she had left the villa. She asked no questions; shetrusted herself without reserve to these true friends who had striven atsuch risks for her, she desired to prove to them that she was what theywould have her be,--a girl who did not pester them with inconvenientchatter, but who could keep silence when silence was helpful, and facehardships with a buoyant heart.They crossed the bridge and stopped before a pair of high folding doors.They were the doors of the tavern. Wogan drew a breath of relief, pulledthe bobbin, and pushed the doors open. Clementina slipped through, andin darkness she took a step forward and bruised herself against thewheels of a carriage. Wogan closed the door and ran to her side."This way," said he, and held out his hand. He guided Clementina roundthe carriage to a steep narrow stairway--it was more a ladder than astair--fixed against the inner wall. At the top of this stairway shone ahorizontal line of yellow light. Wogan led the Princess up the stairs.The line of light shone out beneath a door. Wogan opened the door andstood aside. Clementina passed into a small bare room lighted by asingle candle, where Mrs. Misset, Gaydon, and O'Toole waited for hercoming. Not a word was said; but their eyes spoke their admiration ofthe woman, their knees expressed their homage to the Queen. There was afire blazing on the hearth, Mrs. Misset had a dry change of clothesready and warm. Wogan laid the Princess's bundle on a chair, and withGaydon and O'Toole went down the stairs."The horses?" he asked."I have ordered them," said Gaydon, "at the post-house. I will fetchthem;" and he hurried off upon his errand.Wogan turned to O'Toole."And the bill?""I have paid it.""There is no one awake in the house?""No one but the landlady.""Good! Can you keep her engaged until we are ready?""To be sure I can. She shall never give a thought to any man of you butmyself."O'Toole passed through a door at the bottom of the staircase into thecommon-room of the inn. Wogan gently opened the big doors and draggedthe carriage out into the road. Gaydon with the horses gallopedsilently up through the snow, and together the two men feverishlyharnessed them to the carriage. There were six for the carriage, and aseventh for O'Toole to ride. The expedition which Wogan and Gaydonshowed was matched by the Princess. For while they were fastening thelast buckles, the door at the top of the stairs opened, and again thatnight Clementina whispered,--"I am ready.""Come!" replied Wogan. She wore a scarlet cloak upon her shoulders, andmuffling it about her head she ran down with Mrs. Misset. Wogan openedthe lower door of the inn and called for O'Toole. O'Toole came runningout before Wogan had ended his words, and sprang into his saddle. Gaydonwas already on the box with the reins gathered in his hand. Wogan hadthe carriage door open before Clementina had reached the foot of thestairs; it was shut upon her and her companion almost before they wereaware they were within it; the carriage started almost before the doorwas shut. Yet when it did start, Wogan was beside Gaydon upon the box.Their movements, indeed, occurred with so exact a rapidity, that thoughthe hostess at once followed O'Toole to bid her guests farewell, whenshe reached the big doors she saw only the back of the carriage lurchingthrough the ruts of snow."Quick!" cried Wogan; "we have lost too much time.""A bare twenty minutes," said Gaydon."A good twelve hours," said Wogan.Gaydon lashed the horses into a gallop, the horses strained at theircollars, the carriage raced out of the town and up the slopes of theBrenner. The princess Clementina had been rescued from her prison."But we must keep her free!" cried Wogan, as he blew through his glovesupon his frozen fingers. "Faster! Faster!"The incline was steep, the snow clogged the wheels, the horses sank deepin it. Gaydon might ply his whip as he would, the carriage might lurchand leap from side to side; the pace was all too slow for Wogan."We have lost twelve hours," he cried. "Oh, would to God we were come toItaly!" And turning backwards he strained his eyes down through thedarkness and snow to the hidden roofs of Innspruck, almost fearing tosee the windows from one end of the town to the other leap to a blaze oflight, and to hear a roar of many voices warn him that the escape wasdiscovered. But the only cry that he heard came from the lips of Mrs.Misset, who put her head from the carriage and bade him stop.Gaydon brought the horses to a standstill three miles out of Innspruck.CHAPTER XVWogan jumped down from his box and ran to the carriage-door."Her Highness is ill?" he cried in suspense."Not the least bit in the world," returned Clementina, whose voice foronce in a way jarred upon Wogan's ears. Nothing short of a positivesickness could justify the delay."What is it, then?" he asked curtly, almost roughly, of Mrs. Misset."You carried a packet for her Highness. It is left behind at thetavern."Wogan stamped impatiently on the ground."And for this, for a petticoat or two, you hinder us," he cried in aheat. "There's no petticoat in the world, though it were so stiff withgold that it stood on end of itself, that's worth a single second of thenext forty-eight hours.""But it contains her Highness's jewels."Wogan's impatience became an exasperation. Were all women at heart,then, no better than Indian squaws? A string of beads outweighed thesacrifices of friends and the chance of a crown! There was a blemish inhis idol, since at all costs she must glitter. Wogan, however, was themaster here."Her Highness must lose her jewels," he said roughly, and was turningaway when her Highness herself spoke."You are unjust, my friend," she said. "I would lose them verywillingly, were there a chance no one else would discover them. Butthere's no chance. The woman of the tavern will find the bundle, willopen it; very likely she has done so already. We shall have allInnspruck on our heels in half an hour;" and for the first time thatnight Wogan heard her voice break, and grieved to know that the tearswere running down her cheeks. He called to O'Toole,--"Ride back to the tavern! Bring the packet without fail!"O'Toole galloped off, and Gaydon drove the carriage to the side of theroad. There was nothing to do but to wait, and they waited in silence,counting up the chances. There could be no doubt that the landlady, ifonce she discovered the jewels hidden away in a common packet ofclothing, must suspect the travellers who had left them behind. Shewould be terrified by their value; she would be afraid to retain themlest harm should come to her; and all Innspruck would be upon thefugitives' heels. They waited for half an hour,--thirty minutes of gloomand despair. Clementina wept over this new danger which her comradesran; Mrs. Misset wept for that her negligence was to blame; Gaydon saton the box in the falling snow with his arms crossed upon his breast,and felt his head already loose upon his shoulders. The only one of theparty who had any comfort of that half-hour was Wogan. For he had beenwrong,--the chosen woman had no wish to glitter at all costs, though, tobe sure, she could not help glittering with the refulgence of her greatmerits. His idol had no blemish. Wogan paced up and down the road, whilehe listened for O'Toole's return, and that thought cheated the time forhim. At last he heard very faintly the sound of galloping hoofs belowhim on the road. He ran back to Gaydon."It might be a courier to arrest us. If I shout, drive fast as you canto Nazareth, and from Nazareth to Italy."He hurried down the road and was hailed by O'Toole."I have it," said he. Wogan turned and ran by O'Toole's stirrup to thecarriage."The landlady has a good conscience and sleeps well," said O'Toole. "Ifound the house dark and the doors shut. They were only secured,however, by a wooden beam dropped into a couple of sockets on theinside.""But how did you open them?" asked Clementina."Your Highness, I have, after all, a pair of arms," said O'Toole. "Ijust pressed on the doors till--""Till the sockets gave?""No, till the beam broke," said he, and Clementina laughed."That's my six foot four!" said she. O'Toole did not understand. But hesmiled with great condescension and dignity, and continued his story."I groped my way up the stairs into the room and found the bundleuntouched in the corner."He handed it to the Princess; Wogan sprang again onto the box, andGaydon whipped up the horses. They reached the first posting stage attwo, the second at four, the third at six, and at each they wasted notime. All that night their horses strained up the mountain road amid thewhirling sleet. At times the wind roaring down a gorge would set thecarriage rocking; at times they stuck fast in drifts; and Wogan andGaydon must leap from the box and plunging waist-deep in the snow, mustdrag at the horses and push at the wheels. The pace was too slow; Woganseemed to hear on every gust of wind the sound of a galloping company."We have lost twelve hours, more than twelve hours now," he repeated andrepeated to Gaydon. All the way to Ala they would still be in theEmperor's territory. It needed only a single courier to gallop pastthem, and at either Roveredo or Trent they would infallibly be taken.Wogan fingered his pistols, straining his eyes backwards down the road.At daybreak the snow stopped; the carriage rolled on high among themountains under a grey sky; and here and there, at a wind of the road,Wogan caught a glimpse of the towers and chimney-tops of Innspruck, orhad within his view a stretch of the slope they had climbed. But therewas never a black speck visible upon the white of the snow; as yet nocourier was overtaking them, as yet Innspruck did not know its captivehad escaped. At eight o'clock in the morning they came to Nazareth, andfound their own berlin ready harnessed at the post-house door, thepostillion already in his saddle, and Misset waiting with an uncoveredhead."Her Highness will breakfast here, no doubt?" said Gaydon."Misset will have seen to it," cried Wogan, "that the berlin isfurnished. We can breakfast as we go."They waited no more than ten minutes at Nazareth. The order oftravelling was now changed. Wogan and Gaydon now travelled in the berlinwith Mrs. Misset and Clementina. Gaydon, being the oldest of the party,figured as the Count of Cernes, Mrs. Misset as his wife, Clementina ashis niece, and Wogan as a friend of the family. O'Toole and Misset rodebeside the carriage in the guise of servants. Thus they started fromNazareth, and had journeyed perhaps a mile when without so much as amoan Clementina swooned and fell forward into Wogan's arms. Mrs. Missetuttered a cry; Wogan clasped the Princess to his breast. Her head fellback across his arm, pale as death; her eyes were closed; her bosom,strained against his, neither rose nor fell."She has fasted all Lent," he said in a broken voice. "She has eatennothing since we left Innspruck."Mrs. Misset burst into tears; she caught Clementina's hand and claspedit; she had no eyes but for her. With Gaydon it was different. Wogan washolding the Princess in a clasp too loverlike, though, to be sure, itwas none of his business."We must stop the carriage," he said."No," cried Wogan, desperately; "that we must not do;" and he caught herstill closer to him. He had a fear that she was dying. Even so, sheshould not be recaptured. Though she were dead, he would still carry herdead body into Bologna and lay it white and still before his King.Europe from London to the Bosphorus should know the truth of her andring with the wonder of her, though she were dead. O'Toole, attracted bythe noise of Mrs. Misset's lamentations, bent down over his horse's neckand looked into the carriage."Her Highness is dead!" he cried."Drive on," replied Wogan, through his clenched teeth.Upon the other side of the carriage, Misset shouted through the window,"There is a spring by the roadside.""Drive on," said Wogan.Gaydon touched him on the arm."You will stifle her, man."Wogan woke to a comprehension of his attitude, and placed Clementinaback on her seat. Mrs. Misset by good fortune had a small bottle ofCarmelite water in her pocket; she held it to the Princess's nostrils,who in a little opened her eyes and saw her companions in tears abouther, imploring her to wake."It is nothing," she said. "Take courage, my poor marmosets;" and with asmile she added, "There's my six feet four with the tears in his eyes.Did ever a woman have such friends?"The sun came out in the sky as she spoke. They had topped the pass andwere now driving down towards Italy. There was snow about them still onthe mountain-sides and deep in drifts upon the roads. The air wasmusical with the sound of innumerable freshets: they could be seenleaping and sparkling in the sunlight; the valleys below were green withthe young green of spring, and the winds were tempered with the warmthof Italy. A like change came upon the fugitives. They laughed, wherebefore they had wept; from under the seat they pulled out chickens whichMisset had cooked with his own hands at Nazareth, bottles of the wine ofSt. Laurent, and bread; and Wogan allowed a halt long enough to getwater from a spring by the roadside."There is no salt," said Gaydon."Indeed there is," replied Misset, indignant at the aspersion on hiscatering. "I have it in my tobacco-box." He took his tobacco-box fromhis pocket and passed it into the carriage. Clementina made sandwichesand passed them out to the horsemen. The chickens turned out to be oldcocks, impervious to the soundest tooth. No one minded except Misset,who had brought them. The jolts of the carriage became matter for ajest. They picnicked with the merriment of children, and finallyO'Toole, to show his contempt for the Emperor, fired off both his loadedpistols in the air.At that Wogan's anxiety returned. He blazed up into anger. He thrust hishead from the window."Is this your respect for her Highness?" he cried. "Is this yourconsideration?""Nay," interposed Clementina, "you shall not chide my six feet four.""But he is mad, your Highness. I don't say but what a trifle of madnessis salt to a man; but O'Toole's clean daft to be firing his pistols offto let the whole world know who we are. Here are we not six stages fromInnspruck, and already we have lost twelve hours.""When?""Last night, before we left Innspruck, between the time when you escapedfrom the villa and when I joined you in the avenue. I climbed out of thewindow to descend as I had entered, but the sentinel had returned. Iwaited on the window-ledge crouched against the wall until he shouldshow me his back. After five minutes or so he did. He stamped on thesnow and marched up the lane. I let myself down and hung by my hands,but he turned on his beat before I could drop. He marched back; I clungto the ledge, thinking that in the darkness he would pass on beneath meand never notice. He did not notice; but my fingers were frozen andnumbed with the cold. I felt them slipping; I could cling no longer, andI fell. Luckily I fell just as he passed beneath me; I dropped feetforemost upon his shoulders, and he went down without a cry. I left himlying stunned there on the snow; but he will be found, or he willrecover. Either way our escape will be discovered, and no later thanthis morning. Nay, it must already have been discovered. AlreadyInnspruck's bells are ringing the alarm; already the pursuit isbegun--" and he leaned his head from the window and cried, "Faster!faster!" O'Toole, for his part, shouted, "Trinkgeldt!" It was the onlyword of German which he knew. "But," said he, "there was a Saracen ladyI learned about at school who travelled over Europe and found her loverin an alehouse in London, with no word but his name to help her over theroad. Sure, it would be a strange thing if I couldn't travel all overGermany with the help of 'Trinkgeldt.'"The word certainly had its efficacy with the postillion. "Trinkgeldt!"cried O'Toole, and the berlin rocked and lurched and leaped down thepass. The snow was now less deep, the drifts fewer. The road wound alonga mountain-side: at one window rose the rock; from the other thetravellers looked down hundreds of feet to the bed of the valley and theboiling torrent of the Adige. It was a mere narrow ribbon of a road madeby the Romans, without a thought for the convenience of travellers in alater day; and as the carriage turned a corner, O'Toole, mounted on hishorse, saw ahead a heavy cart crawling up towards them. The carter sawthe berlin thundering down towards him behind its four maddened horses,and he drew his cart to the inside of the road against the rock. Thepostillion tugged at his reins; he had not sufficient interval of spaceto check his team; he threw a despairing glance at O'Toole. It seemedimpossible the berlin could pass. There was no use to cry out; O'Toolefell behind the carriage with his mind made up. He looked down theprecipice; he saw in his imagination the huge carriage with its tangled,struggling horses falling sheer into the foam of the river. He could notride back to Bologna with that story to tell; he and his horse must takethe same quick, steep road.The postillion drove so close to the cart that he touched it as hepassed. "We are lost!" he shouted in an agony; and O'Toole saw the hindwheel of the berlin slip off the road and revolve for the fraction of asecond in the air. He was already putting his horse at the precipice asthough it was a ditch to be jumped, when the berlin made, to hisastonished eyes, an effort to recover its balance like a live thing. Itseemed to spring sideways from the brink of the precipice. It not onlyseemed, it did spring; and O'Toole, drawing rein, in the great revulsionof his feelings, saw, as he rocked unsteadily in his saddle, thecarriage tearing safe and unhurt down the very centre of the road.O'Toole set his spurs to his horse and galloped after it. The postillionlooked back and laughed."Trinkgeldt!" he cried.O'Toole swore loudly, and getting level beat him with his whip. Wogan'shead popped out of the window."Silence!" said he in a rage. "Mademoiselle is asleep;" and then seeingO'Toole's white and disordered face he asked, "What is it?" No one inthe coach had had a suspicion of their danger. But O'Toole still sawbefore his eyes that wheel slip over the precipice and revolve in air,he still felt his horse beneath him quiver and refuse this leap intoair. In broken tones he gasped out his story to Wogan, and as he spokethe Princess stirred."Hush!" said Wogan; "she need not know. Ride behind, O'Toole! Your blueeyes are green with terror. Your face will tell the story, if once shesees it."O'Toole fell back again behind the carriage, and at four that afternoonthey stopped before the post-house at Brixen. They had crossed theBrenner in a storm of snow and howling winds; they had travelled tenleagues from Innspruck. Wogan called a halt of half an hour. ThePrincess had eaten barely a mouthful since her supper of the nightbefore. Wogan forced her to alight, forced her to eat a couple of eggs,and to drink a glass of wine. Before the half-hour had passed, she wasanxious to start again.From Brixen the road was easier; and either from the smoothness of thetravelling or through some partial relief from his anxieties, Wogan, whohad kept awake so long, suddenly fell fast asleep, and when he woke upagain the night was come. He woke up without a start or even a movement,as was his habit, and sat silently and bitterly reproaching himself forthat he had yielded to fatigue. It was pitch-dark within the carriage;he stared through the window and saw dimly the moving mountain-side, andhere and there a clump of trees rush past. The steady breathing ofGaydon, on his left, and of Mrs. Misset in the corner opposite toGaydon, showed that those two guardians slept as well. His reproachesbecame more bitter and then suddenly ceased, for over against him in thedarkness a young, fresh voice was singing very sweetly and very low. Itwas the Princess Clementina, and she sang to herself, thinking all threeof her companions were asleep. Wogan had not caught the sound at firstabove the clatter of the wheels, and even now that he listened it cameintermittently to his ears. He heard enough, however, to know and torejoice that there was no melancholy in the music. The song had theclear bright thrill of the blackbird's note in June. Wogan listened,entranced. He would have given worlds to have written the song withwhich Clementina solaced herself in the darkness, to have composed themelody on which her voice rose and sank.The carriage drew up at an inn; the horses were changed; the flight wasresumed. Wogan had not moved during this delay, neither had Misset norO'Toole come to the door. But an ostler had flashed a lantern into theberlin, and for a second the light had fallen upon Wogan's face andopen eyes. Clementina, however, did not cease; she sang on until thelights had been left behind and the darkness was about them. Then shestopped and said,--"How long is it since you woke?"Wogan was taken by surprise."I should never have slept at all," stammered he. "I promised myselfthat. Not a wink of sleep betwixt Innspruck and Italy; and here was Ifast as a log this side of Trent. I think our postillion sleeps too;"and letting down the window he quietly called Misset."We have fresh relays," said he, "and we travel at a snail's-pace.""The relays are only fresh to us," returned Misset. "We can go nofaster. There is someone ahead with three stages' start of us,--someoneof importance, it would seem, and who travels with a retinue, for hetakes all the horses at each stage."Wogan thrust his head out of the window. There was no doubt of it; thehorses lagged. In this hurried flight the most trifling hindrance was amonumental danger, and this was no trifling hindrance. For the hue andcry was most certainly raised behind them; the pursuit from Innspruckhad begun twelve hours since, on the most favourable reckoning. At anymoment they might hear the jingle of a horse's harness on the roadbehind. And now here was a man with a great retinue blocking their wayin front."We can do no more, but make a fight of it in the end," said he. "Theymay be few who follow us. But who is he ahead?"Misset did not know."I can tell you," said Clementina, with a slight hesitation. "It is thePrince of Baden, and he travels to Italy."Wogan remembered a certain letter which his King had written to him fromRome; and the hesitation in the girl's voice told him the rest of thestory. Wogan would have given much to have had his fingers about thescruff of that pompous gentleman's neck with the precipice handy at hisfeet. It was intolerable that the fellow should pester the Princess inprison and hinder her flight when she had escaped from it."Well, we can do no more," said he, and he drew up the window. NeitherGaydon nor Mrs. Misset were awakened; Clementina and Wogan were alone inthe darkness.She leaned forward to him and said in a low voice,--"Tell me of the King. I shall make mistakes in this new world. Will hehave patience with me while I learn?"She had spoken upon the same strain in the darkness of the staircaseonly the night before. Wogan gently laughed her fears aside."I will tell you the truest thing about the King. He needs you at hisside. For all his friends, he is at heart a lonely man, throned uponsorrows. I dare to tell you that, knowing you. He needs not a merewife, but a mate, a helpmate, to strive with him, her hand in his. Everyman needs the helpmate, as I read the world. For it cannot but be that aman falls below himself when he comes home always to an empty room."The Princess was silent. Wogan hoped that he had reassured her. But herthoughts were now turned from herself. She leaned yet further forwardwith her elbows upon her knees, and in a yet lower voice she asked aquestion which fairly startled him."Does she not love you?"Wogan, indeed, had spoken unconsciously, with a deep note of sadness inhis voice, which had sounded all the more strange and sad to her fromits contrast with the quick, cheerful, vigorous tones she had come tothink the mark of him. He had spoken as though he looked forward with apoignant regret through a weary span of days, and saw himself always inyouth and middle years and age coming home always to an empty room.Therefore she put her question, and Wogan was taken off his guard."There is no one," he said in a flurry.Clementina shook her head."I wish that I may hear the King speak so, and in that voice; I shall bevery sure he loves me," she said in a musing voice, and so changingalmost to a note of raillery. "Tell me her name!" she pleaded. "What isamiss with her that she is not thankful for a true man's love likeyours? Is she haughty? I'll bring her on her knees to you. Does shethink her birth sets her too high in the world? I'll show her so muchcontempt, you so much courtesy, that she shall fall from her arroganceand dote upon your steps. Perhaps she is too sure of your devotion? Why,then, I'll make her jealous!"Wogan interrupted her, and the agitation of his voice put an end to herraillery. Somehow she had wounded him who had done so much for her."Madam, I beg you to believe me, there is no one;" and casting about fora sure argument to dispel her conjectures, he said on an impulse,"Listen; I will make your Highness a confidence." He stopped, to makesure that Gaydon and Mrs. Misset were still asleep. Then he laugheduneasily like a man that is half-ashamed and resumed,--"I am lord andking of a city of dreams. Here's the opening of a fairy tale, you willsay. But when I am asleep my city's very real; and even now that I amawake I could draw you a map of it, though I could not name its streets.That's my town's one blemish. Its streets are nameless. It has taken along while in the building, ever since my boyhood; and indeed the work'snot finished yet, nor do I think it ever will be finished till I die,since my brain's its architect. When I was asleep but now, I discovereda new villa, and an avenue of trees, and a tavern with red blinds whichI had never remarked before. At the first there was nothing but a queerwhite house of which the original has fallen to ruins at Rathcoffey inIreland. This house stood alone in a wide flat emerald plain thatstretched like an untravelled sea to a circle of curving sky. There wasroom to build, you see, and when I left Rathcoffey and became awanderer, the building went on apace. There are dark lanes there fromAvignon between great frowning houses, narrow climbing streets fromMeran, arcades from Verona, and a park of many thickets and tallpoplar-trees with a long silver stretch of water. One day you will seethat park from the windows of St. James. It has a wall too, my city,--around wall enclosing it within a perfect circle; and from whateverquarter of the plain you come towards it, you only see this wall,there's not so much as a chimney visible above it. Once you have crowdedwith the caravans and traders through the gates,--for my town isbusy,--you are at once in the ringing streets. I think my architect inthat took Aigues Mortes for his model. Outside you have the flat, silentplain, across which the merchants creep in long trailing lines, withinthe noise of markets, the tramp of horses' hoofs, the talk of men andwomen, and, if you listen hard, the whispers, too, of lovers. Oh, mycity's populous! There are quiet alleys with windows opening onto them,where on summer nights you may see a young girl's face with themoonlight on it like a glory, and in the shadow of the wall beneath, thecloaked figure of a youth. Well, I have a notion--" and then he brokeoff abruptly. "There's a black horse I own, my favourite horse.""You rode it the first time you came to Ohlau," said the Princess."Do you indeed remember that?" cried Wogan, with so much pleasure thatGaydon stirred in his corner, and Clementina said, "Hush!"Wogan waited in a suspense lest Gaydon should wake up, which, to besure, would be the most inconsiderate thing in the world. Gaydon,however, settled himself more comfortably, and in a little his regularbreathing might be heard again."Well," resumed Wogan, "I have a notion that the lady I shall marry willcome riding some sunrise on my black horse across the plain and into mycity of dreams. And she has not.""Ah," said Clementina, "here's a subterfuge, my friend. The lady youshall marry, you say. But tell me this! Has the lady you love ridden onyour black horse into your city of dreams?""No," said Wogan; "for there is no lady whom I love." There Wogan shouldhave ended, but he added rather sadly, "Nor is there like to be.""Then I am sure," said Clementina."Sure that I speak truth?""No, sure that you mislead me. It is not kind; for here perhaps I mightgive you some small token of my gratitude, would you but let me. Oh, itis no matter. I shall find out who the lady is. You need not doubt it. Ishall set my wits and eyes to work. There shall be marriages when I amQueen. I will find out!"Wogan's face was not visible in the darkness; but he spoke quickly andin a startled voice,--"That you must never do. Promise that you never will! Promise me thatyou will never try;" and again Gaydon stirred in his corner.Clementina made no answer to the passionate words. She did not promise,but she drew a breath, and then from head to foot she shivered. Wogandared not repeat his plea for a promise, but he felt that though she hadnot given it, none the less she would keep it. They sat for awhilesilent. Then Clementina came back to her first question."Tell me of the King," she said very softly. And as the carriage rolleddown the mountain valley through the night and its wheels struck flashesof fire from the stones, Wogan drew a picture for her of the man she wasto marry. It was a relief to him to escape from the dangerous talk ofthe last hour, and he spoke fervently. The poet in him had always beensensitive to the glamour of that wandering Prince; he had hiscountrymen's instinctive devotion for a failing cause. This was nosuitable moment for dwelling upon the defects and weaknesses. Wogan toldher the story of the campaign in Scotland, of the year's residence inAvignon. He spoke most burningly. A girl would no doubt like to hear ofher love's achievements; and if James Stuart had not so many to his nameas a man could wish, that was merely because chance had served him ill.So a fair tale was told, not to be found in any history book, of anight attack in Scotland and how the Chevalier de St. George, surprisedand already to all purposes a prisoner, forced a way alone through ninegrenadiers with loaded muskets and escaped over the roof-tops. It was agood breathless story as he told it, and he had just come to an end ofit when the carriage drove through the village of Wellishmile andstopped at the posting-house. Wogan opened the door and shook Gaydon bythe shoulder."Let us try if we can get stronger horses here," said he, and he gotout. Gaydon woke up with surprising alacrity."I must have fallen asleep," said he. "I beseech your Highness'sforgiveness; I have slept this long while." It was no business of his ifWogan chose to attribute his own escape from Newgate as an exploit ofthe King's. The story was a familiar one at Bologna, whither they werehurrying; it was sufficiently known that Charles Wogan was its hero. Allthis was Wogan's business, not Gaydon's. Nor had Gaydon anything to dowith any city of dreams or with any lady that might ride into it, orwith any black horse that chanced to carry her. Poets no doubt talkedthat way. It was their business. Gaydon was not sorry that he had sleptso heartily through those last stages. He got down from the carriage andmet Wogan coming from the inn with a face of dismay."We are stopped here. There is no help for it. We have gained on thePrince of Baden, who is no more than two stages ahead. The relays whichcarried him from here to the next stage have only this instant comeback. They are too tired to move. So we must stay until they arerefreshed. And we are still three posts this side of Trent!" he cried."I would not mind were Trent behind us. But there's no help for it. Ihave hired a room where the Countess and her niece can sleep until suchtime as we can start."Clementina and Mrs. Misset descended and supped in company with Gaydonand Wogan, while Misset and O'Toole waited upon them as servants. It wasa silent sort of supper, very different from the meal they had made thatmorning. For though the fare was better, it lacked the exhilaration.This delay weighed heavily upon them all. For the country was now for asure thing raised behind them, and if they had gained on the Prince ofBaden, their pursuers had no less certainly gained on them."Would we were t'other side of Trent!" exclaimed Wogan; and looking uphe saw that Clementina was watching him with a strange intentness. Hereyes were on him again while they sat at supper; and when he led her tothe door of her room and she gave him her hand, she stood for a littlewhile looking deep into his eyes. And though she had much need of sleep,when she had got into the room and the door was closed behind her, sheremained staring at the logs of the fire.For she knew his secret, and to her eyes he was now another man. Before,Wogan was the untiring servant, the unflinching friend; now he was theman who loved her. The risks he had run, his journeyings, his unswervingconfidence in the result, his laborious days and nights of preparation,and the swift execution,--love as well as service claimed a share inthese. He was changed for ever to her eyes; she knew his secret. Therewas the cloud no bigger than a man's hand. For she must needs think overall that he had said and done by the new light the secret shed. When didhe first begin to care? Why? She recalled his first visit long ago toOhlau, when he rode across the park on his black horse charged with hismomentous errand. She had been standing, she remembered, before theblazing log-fire in the great stone hall, much as she was standing now.Great changes had come since then. She was James Stuart's chosenwife--and this man loved her. He had no hope of any reward; he desiredeven that she should not know. She should no doubt have been properlysorry and compassionate, but she was a girl simple and frank. To beloved by a man who could so endure and strive and ask no guerdon,--thatlifted her. She thought the more worthily of herself because he lovedher. She was raised thereby. She could not be sorry; her blood pulsed,her heart sang, the starry eyes shone with a brighter light. He lovedher. She knew his secret. A little clock chimed the hour upon themantel-shelf, and lifting her eyes she saw that just twenty-four hourshad passed since she had driven out of Innspruck up the Brenner.As she got into bed a horse galloped up to the inn and stopped. Sheremembered that she had not ridden on his black horse out of the sunriseacross the plain. He loved her, and since he loved her, surely--She fellasleep puzzled and wondering why. She was waked up some two hoursafterwards by a rapping on the door, and she grew hot and she recognisedWogan's voice cautiously whispering to her to rise with all speed. Forin her dreams from which she had wakened, she had ridden across the flatgreen plain into the round city of dreams.CHAPTER XVIWhen the horse galloped up to the door, the Princess turned on her sideand went to sleep. In the common-room below Gaydon and Wogan weresmoking a pipe of tobacco over the fire. Both men rose on the instant;Wogan stealthily opened the door an inch or so and looked down thepassage. Gaydon raised a corner of the blind and peered through thewindow. The two remaining members of the party, Misset and O'Toole, whoas lackeys had served the supper of the Princess, were now eating theirown. When the Princess turned over on her side, and Wogan stepped ontiptoe to the door and Gaydon peeped through the window, Misset laiddown his knife and fork, and drawing a flask from his pocket emptied itscontents into an earthenware water-jug which stood upon the table.O'Toole, for his part, simply continued to eat."He is getting off his horse," said Gaydon."Has he ridden hard, do you think?" asked Misset."He looks in a mighty ill-humour."O'Toole looked up from his plate, and became gradually aware thatsomething was occurring. Before he could speak, however, Gaydon droppedthe blind."He is coming in. It will never do for him to find the four of ustogether. He may not be the courier from Innspruck; on the other hand,he may, and seeing the four of us he will ask questions of the landlord.Seeing no more than two, he will very likely ask none."O'Toole began to understand. He understood, at all events, that for himthere was to be no more supper. If two were to make themselves scarce,he knew that he would be one of the two."Very well," said he, heaving a sigh which made the glasses on the tabledance, and laying his napkin down he got up. To his surprise, however,he was bidden to stay."Gaydon and I will go," said Wogan. "Jack will find out the fellow'sbusiness."Misset nodded his head, took up his knife and fork again. He leanedacross the table to O'Toole as the others stepped out of the room."You speak only French, Lucius. You come from Savoy." He had no time tosay more, for the new-comer stamped blustering down the passage andflung into the room. The man, as Gaydon had remarked, was in a mightyill-humour; his clothes and his face were splashed with mud, and heseemed, moreover, in the last stage of exhaustion. For though he bawledfor the landlord it was in a weak, hoarse voice, which did not reachbeyond the door.Misset looked at him with sympathy."You have no doubt come far," said he; "and the landlord's a laggard.Here's something that may comfort you till he comes;" and he filled aglass half full with red Tyrol wine from the bottle at his elbow.The man thanked him and advanced to the table."It is a raw hot wine," continued Misset, "and goes better with water;"and he filled up the glass from the water-jug. The courier reached outhis hand for it."I am the thirstiest man in all Germany," said he, and he took a gulp ofthe wine and immediately fell to spluttering."Save us," said he, "but this wine is devilishly strong.""Try some more water," said Misset, and again he filled up the glass.The courier drank it all in a single draught, and stood winking his eyesand shaking his head."That warms a man," said he. "It does one good;" and again he called forthe landlord, and this time in a strange voice. The landlord stilllagged, however, and Misset did not doubt that Wogan had found a meansto detain him. He filled up the courier's glass again, half wine, halfwater. The courier sat heavily down in a chair."I take the liberty, gentlemen," said he. "I am no better than adung-heap to sit beside gentlemen. But indeed I can stand no longer.Never have I stridden across such vile slaughter-house cattle as theykeep for travellers on the Brenner road. I have sprained my legs withspurring 'em. Seven times," he cried with an oath,--"seven times has ahorse dropped under me to-day. There's not an inch of me unbruised,curse me if there is! I'm a cake of mud."Misset knew very well why the courier had suffered these falls. Thehorses he had ridden had first been tired by the Prince of Baden, andthen had the last spark of fire flogged out of them by the Princess'spostillions. He merely shrugged his shoulders, however, and said, "Thatlooks ill for us."The courier gazed suddenly at Misset, then at O'Toole, with a dull sortof suspicion in his eyes."And which way might you gentlemen be travelling?""To Innspruck; we're from Trent," said Misset, boldly.The courier turned to O'Toole."And you too, sir?"O'Toole turned a stolid, uncomprehending face upon the courier."Pour moi, monsieur, je suis Savoyard. Monsieur qui vous parle, c'estmon compagnon de negoce."The courier gazed with blank, heavy eyes at O'Toole. He had theappearance of a man fuddled with drink. He heaved a sigh or two."Will you repeat that," he said at length, "and slowly?"O'Toole repeated his remark, and the courier nodded at him. "That'svery strange," said he, solemnly, wagging his head. "I do not disputeits truth, but it is most strange. I will tell my wife of it." He turnedin his chair, and a twinge from his bruises made him cry out. "I shallbe as stiff as a mummy in the morning," he exclaimed, and swore loudlyat "the bandits" who had caused him this deplorable journey. Misset andO'Toole exchanged a quick glance, and Misset pushed the glass across thetable. The courier took it, and his eyes lighted up."You have come from Trent," said he. "Did you pass a travelling carriageon the road?""Yes," said Misset; "the Prince of Baden with a large following droveinto Trent as we came out.""Yes, yes," said the courier. "But no second party behind the Prince?"Misset shook his head; he made a pretence of consulting O'Toole inFrench, and O'Toole shook his head."Then I shall have the robbers," cried the courier. "They are to beflayed alive, and they deserve it," he shouted fiercely to Misset."Gallows-birds!"He dropped his head upon his arms and muttered "gallows-birds" again. Itseemed that he was falling asleep, but he suddenly sat up and beat onthe table with his fist."I have eaten nothing since the morning. Ah--gallows-birds--flayedalive, and hanged--no, hanged and flayed alive--no, that's impossible."He drank off the wine which Misset had poured out for him, and rose fromhis chair. "Where's the landlord? I want supper. I want besides to speakto him;" and he staggered towards the door."As for supper," said Misset, "we shall be glad if you will share ours.Travellers should be friendly."O'Toole caught the courier by the arm and with a polite speech in Frenchdrew him again down into his chair. The courier stared at O'Toole andforgot all about the landlord. He had eaten nothing all day, and thewine and the water-jug had gone to his head. He put a long forefinger onO'Toole's knee."Say that again," said he, and O'Toole obeyed. A slow, fat smile spreadall over the courier's face."I'll tell my wife about it," said he. He tried to clap O'Toole on theback, and missing him fell forward with his face on the table. The nextminute he was snoring. Misset walked round the table and deftly pickedhis pockets. There was a package in one of them superscribed to "PrinceTaxis, the Governor of Trent." Misset deliberately broke the seal andread the contents. He handed the package to O'Toole, who read it, andthen flinging it upon the ground danced upon it. Misset went out of theroom and found Wogan and Gaydon keeping watch by Clementina's door. Tothem he spoke in a whisper."The fellow brings letters from General Heister to the Governor of Trentto stop us at all costs. But his letters are destroyed, and he's lyingdead-drunk on the table."The three men quickly concerted a plan. The Princess must be roused; astart must be made at once; and O'Toole must be left behind to keep awatch upon the courier, Wogan rapped at the door and waked Clementina;he sent Gaydon to the stables to bribe the ostlers, and with Misset wentdown to inform O'Toole.O'Toole, however, was sitting with his eyes closed and his head nodding,surrounded by scraps of the letter which he had danced to pieces. Woganshook him by the shoulder, and he opened his eyes and smiled fatuously."He means to tell his wife," he said with a foolish gurgle of laughter."He must be an ass. I don't think if I had a wife I should tell her.Would you, Wogan, tell your wife if you had one? Misset wouldn't tellhis wife."Misset interrupted him."What have you drank since I went out of the room?" he asked roughly. Hetook up the water-jug and turned it topsy-turvy. It was quite empty."Only water," said O'Toole, dreamily, and he laughed again. "Now Iwouldn't mind telling my wife that," said he.Misset let him go and turned with a gesture of despair to Wogan."I poured my flask out into the water-bottle. It was full of burntStrasbourg brandy, of double strength. It is as potent as opium. Neitherof them will have his wits before to-morrow. It will not help us toleave O'Toole to guard the courier.""And we cannot take him," said Wogan. "There is the Princess to bethought of. We must leave him, and we cannot leave him alone, for hisneck's in danger,--more than in danger if the courier wakes before him."He picked up carefully the scraps of the letter and placed them in themiddle of the fire. They were hardly burnt before Gaydon came into theroom with word that horses were already being harnessed to the berlin.Wogan explained their predicament."We must choose which of us three shall stay behind," said he."Which of us two," Misset corrected, pointing to Gaydon and himself."When the Princess drives into Bologna, Charles Wogan, who first had thehigh heart to dare this exploit, the brain to plot, the hand to executeit,--Charles Wogan must ride at her side, not Misset, not Gaydon. I takeno man's honours." He shook Wogan by the hand as he spoke, and he hadspoken with an extraordinary warmth of admiration. Gaydon could do noless than follow his companion's example, though there was a shade ofembarrassment in his manner of assenting. It was not that he had anyenvy of Wogan, or any desire to rob him of a single tittle of his duecredit. There was nothing mean in Gaydon's nature, but here was ahalving of Clementina's protectors, and he could not stifle a suspicionthat the best man of the four to leave behind was really Charles Woganhimself. Not a word, however, of this could he say, and so he nodded hisassent to Misset's proposal."It is I, then, who stay behind with O'Toole and the courier," he said."Misset has a wife; the lot evidently falls to me. We will make a shiftsomehow or another to keep the fellow quiet till sundown to-morrow,which time should see you out of danger." He unbuckled the sword fromhis waist and laid it on the table, and that simple action somehowtouched Wogan to the heart. He slipped his arm into Gaydon's and saidremorsefully,--"Dick, I do hate to leave you, you and Lucius. I swept you into theperil, you two, my friends, and now I leave you in the thick of it tofind a way out for yourselves. But there is no remedy, is there? I shallnot rest until I see you both again. Goodbye, Lucius." He looked atO'Toole sprawling with outstretched legs upon his groaning chair. "Mysix feet four," said he, turning to Gaydon; "you must give me thepassport. Have a good care of him, Dick;" and he gripped O'Tooleaffectionately by the arms for a second, and then taking the passporthurried from the room. Gaydon had seldom seen Wogan so moved.The berlin was brought round to the door; the Princess, rosy with sleep,stepped into it; Wogan had brought with him a muff, and he slipped itover Clementina's feet to keep her warm during the night; Misset tookGaydon's place, and the postillion cracked his whip and set off towardsTrent. Gaydon, sitting before the fire in the parlour, heard the wheelsgrate upon the road; he had a vision of the berlin thundering throughthe night with a trail of sparks from the wheels; and he wonderedwhether Misset was asleep or merely leaning back with his eyes shut, andthus visiting incognito Woman's fairy-land of dreams. However, Gaydonconsoled himself with the reflection that it was none of his business.CHAPTER XVIIBut Gaydon was out of his reckoning. There were no fairy tales told forMisset to overhear, and the Princess Clementina slept in her corner ofthe carriage. If a jolt upon a stone wakened her, a movement oppositetold her that her sentinel was watchful and alert. Three times theberlin stopped for a change of horses; and on each occasion Wogan wasout of the door and hurrying the ostlers before the wheels had ceased torevolve."You should sleep, my friend," said she."Not till we reach Italy," he replied; and with the confidence of achild she nestled warmly in her cloak again and closed her eyes. Thisfeeling of security was a new luxury to her after the months of anxietyand prison. The grey light of the morning stole into the berlin andrevealed to her the erect and tireless figure of her saviour. The sunleaped down the mountain-peaks, and the grey of the light was now asparkling gold. Wogan bade her Highness look from the carriage window,and she could not restrain a cry of delight. On her left, mountain-ridgerose behind mountain-ridge, away to the towering limestone cliffs ofMonte Scanupia; on her right, the white peaks of the Orto d'Abramflashed to the sun; and between the hills the broad valley of the Adigerolled southwards,--a summer country of villages and vines, ofmulberry-trees and fields of maize, in the midst of which rose thebelfries of an Italian town."This is Italy," she cried."But the Emperor's Italy," answered Wogan; and at half-past nine thatmorning the carriage stopped in the public square of Trent. As Woganstepped onto the ground, he saw a cloud of dust at the opposite side ofthe square, and wrapped in that cloud men on horseback like soldiers inthe smoke of battle; he heard, too, the sound of wheels. The Prince ofBaden had that instant driven away, and he had taken every procurablehorse in the town. Wogan's own horses could go no further. He came backto the door of the carriage."I must search through Trent," said he, "on the mere chance of findingwhat will serve us. Your Highness must wait in the inn;" and Clementina,muffling her face, said to him,--"I dare not. My face is known in Trent, though this is the first timeever I saw it. But many gentlemen from Trent came to the Innspruckcarnival, and of these a good number were kind enough to offer me theirhearts. They were allowed to besiege me to their content. I must needsremain in the shelter of the carriage."Wogan left Misset to stand sentinel, and hurried off upon his business.He ran from stable to stable, from inn to inn. The Prince of Baden hadhired thirty-six horses; six more were nowhere to be found. Wogan wouldbe content with four; he ended in a prayer for two. At each house thedoor was shut in his face. Wogan was in despair; nowhere could delay beso dangerous as at Trent, where there were soldiers, and a Governor whowould not hesitate to act without orders if he suspected the PrincessClementina was escaping through his town. Two hours had passed inWogan's vain search,--two hours of daylight, during which Clementina hadsat in an unharnessed carriage in the market square. Wogan ran back tothe square, half expecting to find that she had been recognised andarrested. As he reached the square, he saw that curious people wereloitering about the carriage; as he pushed through them, he heard themquestioning why travellers should on so hot a morning of spring sitmuffled up in a close, dark carriage when they could take their easebeneath trees in the inn-garden. One man laughed out at the Princess andthe comical figure she made with her scarlet cloak drawn tight about herface. Wogan himself had bought that cloak in Strasbourg to guard hisPrincess from the cold of the Brenner, and guessed what discomfort itsermine lining must now be costing her. And this lout dared to laugh andmake her, this incomparable woman, a butt for his ridicule! Wogan took astep towards the fellow with his fists clenched, but thought the betterof his impulse, and turning away ran to the palace of Prince Taxis.This desperate course alone remained to him; he must have speech withthe Prince-bishop himself. At the palace, however, he was informed thatthe Prince was in bed with the gout. Mr. Wogan, however, insisted."You will present my duties to the Prince; you will show him mypassport; you will say that the Count of Cernes has business of the lastimportance in Italy, and begs permission, since the Prince of Baden hashired every post-horse in the town, to requisition half a dozenfarm-horses from the fields."Mr. Wogan kicked his heels in the courtyard while the message was taken.At any moment some rumour of the curious spectacle in the square mightbe brought to the palace and excite inquiry. There might be anothercourier in pursuit besides the man whom Gaydon kept a prisoner. Woganwas devoured with a fever of impatience. It seemed to him hours beforethe Prince's secretary returned to him. The secretary handed him backhis passport, and on the part of the Prince made a speech full ofcivilities."Here's a great deal of jam, sir," said Wogan. "I misdoubt me but whatthere's a most unpalatable pill hidden away in it.""Indeed," said the secretary, "the Prince begs you to be content and towait for the post-horses to return.""Ah, ah!" cried Wogan, "but that's the one thing I cannot do. I mustspeak plainly, it appears." He drew the secretary out of ear-shot, andresumed: "My particular business is to catch up the Prince of Baden. Heis summoned back to Innspruck. Do you understand?" he askedsignificantly."Sir, we are well informed in Trent as to the Emperor's wishes," saidthe secretary, with a great deal of dignity."No, no, my friend," said Wogan. "It is not by the Emperor the Prince ofBaden is summoned, though I have no doubt the summons is much to histaste."The secretary stepped back in surprise."By her Highness the Princess?" he exclaimed."She changes her mind; she is willing where before she was obdurate. Totell you the truth, the Prince plied her too hard, and she would havenone of him. Now that he turns his back and puts the miles as fast as hecan between himself and her, she cannot sleep for want of him."The secretary nodded his head sagaciously."Her Highness is a woman," said he, "and that explains all. But it willdo her no harm to suffer a little longer for her obstinacy, and, to tellyou the truth, the Prince Taxis is so tormented with the gout that--""That you are unwilling to approach him a second time," interruptedWogan. "I have no doubt of it. I have myself seen prelates in a mostunprelatical mood. But here is a case where needs must. I have not toldyou all. There is a devil of a fellow called Charles Wogan."The secretary nodded his head."A mad Irishman who has vowed to free her Highness.""He has set out from Strasbourg with that aim.""He will hang for it, then, but he will never rescue her;" and thesecretary began to laugh. "I cannot upon my honour vex the Prince againbecause a gallows-bird has prated in his cups.""No, no," said Wogan; "you do not follow me. Charles Wogan will come tothe gallows over this adventure. For my part, I would have him broken onthe wheel and tortured in many uncomfortable ways. These Irishmen allthe world over are pestilent fellows. But the trouble is this: If herHighness hears of his attempt, she is, as you sagely discovered, awoman, a trivial, trifling thing. She will be absurd enough to imagineher rescue possible; she will again change her mind, and it is preciselythat which General Heister fears. He would have her formally betrothedto the Prince of Baden before Charles Wogan is caught and hangedsky-high. Therefore, since I was pressing into Italy, he charged me withthis message to the Prince of Baden. Now observe this, if you please.Suppose that I do not overtake the Prince; suppose that her Highnesshears of Wogan's coming and again changes her mind,--who will be toblame? Not I, for I have done my best, not Prince Taxis, for he is notinformed, but Prince Taxis's secretary."The secretary yielded to Wogan's argument. He might be in a great fearof Prince Taxis, but he was in a greater of the Emperor's wrath. He leftWogan again, and in a little while came back with the writtenpermission which Wogan desired. Wogan wasted no time in unnecessarycivilities; the morning had already been wasted. The clocks werestriking one as he hurried away from the palace, and before two thePrincess Clementina was able to throw back her cloak from about her faceand take the air; for the berlin was on the road from Trent to Roveredo."Those were the four worst hours since we left Innspruck," she said. "Ithought I should suffocate." The revulsion from despair, the knowledgethat each beat of the hoofs brought them nearer to safety, the glow ofthe sun upon a country which was Italy in all but name, raised them allto the top of their spirits. Clementina was in her gayest mood; shelavished caresses upon her "little woman," as she called Mrs. Misset;she would have Wogan give her an account of his interview with PrinceTaxis's secretary; she laughed with the merriest enjoyment over hisabuse of Charles Wogan."But it was not myself alone whom I slandered," said he. "Your Highnesshad a share of our abuse. Our heads wagged gravely over woman'sinconstancies. It was not in nature but you must change your mind.Indeed, your Highness would have laughed."But at all events her Highness did not laugh now. On the contrary, hereyes lost all their merriment, and her blood rushed hotly into hercheeks. She became for that afternoon a creature of moods, now talkingquickly and perhaps a trifle wildly, now relapsing into long silences.Wogan was troubled by a thought that the strain of her journey wastelling its tale even upon her vigorous youth. It may be that she notedhis look of anxiety, but she said to him abruptly and with a sort ofrebellion,--"You would despise any woman who had the temerity to change her mind.""Nay; I do not say that.""But it is merely politeness that restrains you. You would despise her,judging her by men. When a man changes his mind, why, it is so, hechanges his mind. But when a girl does, it may well be that for thefirst time she is seriously exercising her judgment. For her upbringingrenders it natural that she should allow others to make up her mind forher at the first.""That I think is very true," said Wogan.Clementina, however, was not satisfied with his assent. She attacked himagain and almost vindictively."You of course would never change your mind for any reason, once it wasfixed. You are resolute. You are quite, quite perfect."Mr. Wogan could not imagine what he had done thus to provoke her irony."Madam," he pleaded, "I am not in truth so obstinate a fellow as youmake me out. I have often changed my mind. I take some pride in it onoccasion."Her Highness inclined to a greater graciousness."I am glad to know it. You shall give me examples. One may have a stiffneck and yet no cause for pride."Wogan looked so woe-begone under this reproof that Clementina suddenlybroke out into a laugh, and so showed herself in a fresh and morefamiliar mood. The good-humour continued; she sat opposite to Mr. Wogan;if she moved, her hand, her knee, her foot, must needs touch his; shemade him tell her stories of his campaigns; and so the evening came uponthem,--an evening of stars and mysterious quiet and a clear, dark sky.They passed Roveredo; they drew near to Ala, the last village in theEmperor's territories. Five miles beyond Ala they would be on Venetiansoil, and already they saw the lights of the village twinkling like somany golden candles. But the berlin, which had drawn them so stoutlyover these rugged mountain-roads, failed them at the last. One of thehind wheels jolted violently upon a great stone, there was a suddencracking of wood, and the carriage lurched over, throwing its occupantsone against the other.Wogan disentangled himself, opened the door, and sprang out. He sprangout into a pool of water. One glance at the carriage, dark though thenight was, told him surely what had happened. The axle-tree was broken.He saw that Clementina was about to follow him."There is water," said he. "It is ankle-deep.""And no white stone," she answered with a laugh, "whereon I can safelyset my foot?""No," said he, "but you can trust without fear to my arms;" and hereached them out to her."Can I?" said she, in a curious voice; and when he had lifted her fromthe carriage, she was aware that she could not. He lifted her daintily,like a piece of porcelain; but to lift her was not enough, he must carryher. His arms tightened about her waist, hers in spite of herself abouthis shoulders. He took a step or two from the carriage, with the waterwashing over his boots, and the respectful support of a servant becamethe warm grip of a man. He no longer held her daintily; he clipped herclose to him, straining her breasts against his chest; he was on firewith her. She could not but know it; his arms shook, his bosom heaved;she felt the quick hammering of his heart; and a murmur, an inarticulatemurmur, of infinite longing trembled from his throat. And something ofhis madness passed into her and made a sweet tumult in her blood. Hestopped still holding her; he felt her fingers clasp tighter; he lookeddownwards into her face upturned to his. They were alone for a moment,these two, alone in an uninhabited world. The broken carriage, the busyfingers about it, the smoking horses, the lights of Ala twinkling in thevalley, had not even the substance of shadows. They simply were not, andthey never had been. There were just two people alive between thePoles,--not princess and servant, but man and woman in the primitiverelationship of rescuer and rescued; and they stood in the dark of atranslucent night of spring, with the stars throbbing above them to thetime of their passionate hearts, and the earth stretching about themrich as black velvet. He looked down into her eyes as once in thenight-time he had done before; and again he marvelled at theirsteadiness and their mysterious depths. Her eyes were fixed on his anddid not flinch; her arms were close about his neck; he bent his headtowards her, and she said in a queer, toneless voice, low but as steadyas her eyes,--"I know. Ah, but well I know. Last night I dreamed; I rode on your blackhorse into your city of dreams;" and the moment of passion ended infarce. For Wogan, startled by the words, set her down there and theninto the pool. She stood over her ankles in water. She uttered a littlecry and shivered. Then she laughed and sprang lightly onto dry soil,making much of her companion's awkwardness. Wogan joined in thelaughter, finding therein as she did a cover and a cloak."We must walk to Ala," said he."It is as well," said she. "There was a time when cavaliers laid theircloaks in the mud to save a lady's shoe-sole.""Madam," said Wogan, "the chivalry of to-day has the same intention.""But in its effect," said she, "it is more rheumatical."Wogan searched in the carriage and drew out a coil of rope which heslung across his shoulders like a bandolier. Clementina laughed at himfor his precautions, but Wogan was very serious. "I would not part withit," said he. "I never travelled for four days without being put to itfor a piece of rope."They left the postillion to make what he could of the berlin and walkedforward in the clear night to Ala. The shock of the tumble had alarmedMrs. Misset; the fatigue of the journey had strained her endurance tothe utmost. She made no complaint, but she could walk but slowly andwith many rests by the way. It took a long while for them to reach thevillage. They saw the lights diminish in the houses; the stars grewpale; there came a hint of morning in the air. The laughter at Wogan'sawkwardness had long since died away, and they walked in silence.Forty-eight hours had passed since the berlin left Innspruck.Twenty-four hours ago Clementina knew Wogan's secret. Now he was awarethat she knew it. They could not look into each other's faces, but theireyes conversed of it. If they turned their heads sharply away, thataversion of their gaze spoke no less clearly. There was a link betweenthem now, and a secret link, the sweeter on that account,perhaps,--certainly the more dangerous. The cloud had grown much biggerthan a man's hand. Moreover, she had never seen James Stuart; she hadhis picture, it is true, but the picture could not recall. It mustcreate, not revivify his image to her thoughts, and that it could notdo; so that he remained a shadowy figure to her, a mere number offeatures, almost an abstraction. On the other hand the King's emissarywalked by her side, sat sleepless before her, had held her in his arms,had talked with her, had risked his life for her; she knew him. What sheknew of James Stuart, she knew chiefly from the lips of this emissary.On this walk to Ala he spoke of his master, and remorsefully in thehighest praise. But she knew his secret, she knew that he loved her, andtherefore every remorseful, loyal word he spoke praised him more than itpraised his master. And it happened that just as they came to theoutskirts of the village, she dropped a handkerchief which hung looselyabout her neck. For a moment she did not remark her loss; when she didand turned, she saw that her companion was rising from the ground onwhich no handkerchief longer lay, and that he had his right hand in hisbreast. She turned again without a word, and walked forward. But sheknew that kerchief was against his heart, and the cloud still grew.CHAPTER XVIIIThey reached Ala towards two o'clock of the morning. The town had somereputation in those days for its velvets and silks, and Wogan made nodoubt that somewhere he would procure a carriage to convey them thenecessary five miles into Venetian territory. The Prince of Baden wasstill ahead of them, however. The inn of "The Golden Lion" had not asingle horse fit for their use in its stables. Wogan, however, obtainedthere a few likely addresses and set out alone upon his search. Hereturned in a couple of hours with a little two-wheeled cart drawn by apony, and sent word within that he was ready. Clementina herself withher hood thrown back from her face came out to him at the door. An oillamp swung in the passage and lit up her face. Wogan could see that theface was grave and anxious."Your Highness and Mrs. Misset can ride in the cart. It has no springs,to be sure, and may shake to pieces like plaster. But if it carries youfive miles, it will serve. Misset and I can run by the side.""But Lucy Misset must not go," said Clementina. "She is ill, and nowonder. She must not take one step more to-night. There would be greatdanger, and indeed she has endured enough for me." The gravity of thegirl's face, as much as her words, convinced Wogan that here was nooccasion for encouragement or resistance. He said with someembarrassment,--"Yet we cannot leave her here alone; and of us two men, her husband muststay with her.""Dare we wait till the morning?" asked Clementina. "Lucy may berecovered then."Wogan shook his head."The courier we stopped at Wellishmile was not the only man sent afterus. Of that we may be very sure. Here are we five miles from safety, andwhile those five miles are still unbridged--Listen!"Wogan leaned his head forward and held up his hand for silence. In thestill night they could hear far away the galloping of a horse. The soundgrew more distinct as they listened."The rider comes from Italy," said Clementina. "But he might have comefrom Trent," cried Wogan. "We left Trent behind twelve hours ago, andmore. For twelve hours we crept and crawled along the road; these lastmiles we have walked. Any moment the Emperor's troopers might comeriding after us. Ah, but we are not safe! I am afraid!"Clementina turned sharply towards him as he spoke this unwontedconfession."You!" she exclaimed with a wondering laugh. Yet he had spoken thetruth. His face was twitching; his eyes had the look of a man scared outof his wits."Yes, I am afraid," he said in a low, uneasy voice. "When I have all butwon through the danger, then comes my moment of fear. In the thick ofit, perils tread too close upon the heels of peril for a man to countthem up. Each minute claims your hands and eyes and brain,--claims youand inspires you. But when the danger's less, and though less stillthreatens; when you're just this side of safety's frontier and notsafe,--indeed, indeed, one should be afraid. A vain spirit ofconfidence, and the tired head nods, and the blow falls on it fromnowhere. Oh, but I have seen examples times out of mind. I beg you, nodelay!"The hoofs of the approaching horse sounded ever louder while Woganspoke; and as he ended, a man rode out from the street into the openspace before the inn. The gallop became a trot."He is riding to the door," said Wogan. "The light falls on your face;"and he drew Clementina into the shadow of the wall. But at the samemoment the rider changed his mind. He swerved; it seemed too that heused his spurs, for his horse bounded beneath him and galloped past theinn. He disappeared into the darkness, and the sound of the horsediminished. Wogan listened until they had died away."He rides into Austria!" said he. "He rides to Trent, to Brixen, toInnspruck! And in haste. Let us go! I had even a fancy that I knew hisvoice.""From a single oath uttered in anger! Nay, you are all fears. For mypart, I was afraid that he had it in his mind to stay here at this innwhere my little woman lies. What if suspicion fall on her? What if thosetroopers of the Emperor find her and guess the part she played!""You make her safe by seeking safety," returned Wogan. "You are the preythe Emperor flies at. Once you are out of reach, his mere dignity musthold him in from wreaking vengeance on your friends."Wogan went into the inn, and calling Misset told him of his purpose. Hewould drive her Highness to Peri, a little village ten miles from Ala,but in Italy. At Peri, Mrs. Misset and her husband were to rejoin themin the morning, and from Peri they could travel by slow stages toBologna. The tears flowed from Clementina's eyes when she took herfarewell of her little woman. Though her reason bowed to Wogan'sargument, she had a sense of cowardice in deserting so faithful afriend. Mrs. Misset, however, joined in Wogan's prayer; and she mountedinto the trap and at Wogan's side drove out of the town by that streetalong which the horseman had ridden.Clementina was silent; her driver was no more talkative. They were aloneand together on the road to Italy. That embarrassment from which Wogan'sconfession of fear had procured them some respite held them in a stiffconstraint. They were conscious of it as of a tide engulfing them.Neither dared to speak, dreading what might come of speech. The mostcareless question, the most indifferent comment, might, as it seemed toboth, be the spark to fire a mine. Neither had any confidence to say,once they had begun to talk, whither the talk would lead; but they werevery much afraid, and they sat very still lest a movement of the oneshould provoke a question in the other. She knew his secret, and he wasaware that she knew it. She could not have found it even then in herheart to part willingly with her knowledge. She had thought over-muchupon it during the last day. She had withdrawn herself into it from thecompany of her fellow-travellers, as into a private chamber; it wasfamiliar and near. Nor would Wogan have desired, now that she had theknowledge, to deprive her of it, but he knew it instinctively for adangerous thing. He drove on in silence while the stars paled in theheavens and a grey, pure light crept mistily up from the under edges ofthe world, and the morning broke hard and empty and cheerless. Wogansuddenly drew in the reins and stopped the cart."There is a high wall behind us. It stretches across the fields fromeither side," said he. "It makes a gateway of the road."Clementina turned. The wall was perhaps ten yards behind them."A gateway," said she, "through which we have passed.""The gateway of Italy," answered Wogan; and he drew the lash once ortwice across the pony's back and so was silent. Clementina looked at hisset and cheerless face, cheerless as that chill morning, and she too wassilent. She looked back along the road which she had traversed throughsnow and sunshine and clear nights of stars; she saw it winding out fromthe gates of Innspruck over the mountains, above the foaming river, andafter a while she said very wistfully,--"There are worse lives than a gipsy's.""Are there any better?" answered Wogan.So this was what Mr. Wogan's fine project had come to. He rememberedanother morning when the light had welled over the hills, sunless andclear and cold, on the road to Bologna,--the morning of the day when hehad first conceived the rescue of Clementina. And the rescue had beeneffected, and here was Clementina safe out of Austria, and Wogan sure ofa deathless renown, of the accomplishment of an endeavour held absurdand preposterous; and these two short sentences were their summary andcomment,--"There are worse lives than a gipsy's.""Are there any better?"Both had at this supreme crisis of their fortunes but the onethought,--that the only days through which they had really lived werethose last two days of flight, of hurry, of hope alternating withdespair, of light-hearted companionship, days never to be forgotten,when each snatched meal was a picnic seasoned with laughter, days ofunharnessed freedom lived in the open air.Clementina was the first to perceive that her behaviour fell below theoccasion. She was safe in Italy, journeying henceforward safely to herbetrothed. She spurred herself to understand it, she forced her lips tosing aloud the Te Deum. Wogan looked at her in surprise as the firstnotes were sung, and the woful appeal in her eyes compelled him to asbrave a show as he could make of joining in the hymn. But the wordsfaltered, the tune wavered, joyless and hollow in that empty morning."Drive on," said Clementina, suddenly; and she had a sense that she wasbeing driven into bondage,--she who had just been freed. Wogan drove ontowards Peri.It was the morning of Sunday, the 30th of April; and as the little cartdrew near to this hamlet of thirty cottages, the travellers could hearthe single bell in the church belfry calling the villagers to Mass.Wogan spoke but once to Clementina, and then only to point out a woodenhut which stood picturesquely on a wooded bluff of Monte Lessini, highup upon the left. A narrow gorge down which a torrent foamed led upwardsto the bluff, and the hut of which the windows were shuttered, and whichseemed at that distance to have been built with an unusual elegance, wasto Wogan's thinking a hunting-box. Clementina looked up at the bluffindifferently and made no answer. She only spoke as Wogan drove pastthe church-door, and the sound of the priest's voice came droning out tothem."Will you wait for me?" she asked. "I will not be long."Wogan stopped the pony."You would give thanks?" said he. "I understand.""I would pray for an honest heart wherewith to give honest thanks," saidClementina, in a low voice; and she added hastily, "There is a life ofceremonies, there is a life of cities before me. I have lived under theskies these last two days."She went into the church, shrouding her face in her hood, and kneeleddown before a rush chair close to the door. A sense of gratitude,however, was not that morning to be got by any prayers, however earnest.It was merely a distaste for ceremonies and observances, she strenuouslyassured herself, that had grown upon her during these ten days. Shesought to get rid of that distaste, as she kneeled, by picturing in herthoughts the Prince to whom she was betrothed. She recalled theexploits, the virtues, which Wogan had ascribed to him; she stamped themupon the picture. "It is the King," she said to herself; and the pictureanswered her, "It is the King's servant." And, lo! the face of thepicture was the face of Charles Wogan. She covered her cheeks with herhands in a burning rush of shame; she struck in her thoughts at the faceof that image with her clenched fists, to bruise, to annihilate it. "Itis the King! It is the King! It is the King!" she cried in her remorse,but the image persisted. It still wore the likeness of Charles Wogan; itstill repeated, "No, it is the King's servant." There was more of theprimitive woman in this girl bred in the rugged country-side of Silesiathan even Wogan was aware of, and during the halts in their journey shehad learned from Mrs. Misset details which Wogan had been at pains toconceal. It was Wogan who had conceived the idea of her rescue--in theKing's place. In the King's place, Wogan had come to Innspruck andeffected it. In the King's place, he had taken her by the hand and clefta way for her through her enemies. He was the man, the rescuer; she wasthe woman, the rescued.She became conscious of the futility of her attitude of prayer. Sheraised her head and saw that a man kneeling close to the altar hadturned and was staring fixedly towards her. The man was the Prince ofBaden. Had he recognised her? She peered between her fingers; sheremarked that his gaze was puzzled; he was not then sure, though hesuspected. She waited until he turned his head again, and then shesilently rose to her feet and slipped out of the church. She found Woganwaiting for her in some anxiety."Did he recognise you?" he asked."He was not sure," answered Clementina. "How did you know he was atMass?""A native I spoke with told me."Clementina climbed up into the cart."The Prince is not a generous man," she said hesitatingly.Wogan understood her. The Prince of Baden must not know that she hadcome to Peri escorted by a single cavalier. He would talk bitterly, hewould make much of his good fortune in that he had not married thePrincess Clementina, he would pity the Chevalier de St. George,--therewas a fine tale there. Wogan could trace it across the tea-tables ofEurope, and hear the malicious inextinguishable laughter which winged iton its way. He drove off quickly from the church door."He leaves Peri at nine," said Wogan. "He will have no time to makeinquiries. We have but to avoid the inn he stays at. There is a secondat the head of the village which we passed."To this second inn Wogan drove, and was welcomed by a shrewish womanwhose sour face was warmed for once in a way into something likeenthusiasm."A lodging indeed you shall have," cried she, "and a better lodging thanthe Prince of Baden can look back upon, though he pay never so dearlyfor it. Poor man, he will have slept wakefully this night! Here, sir,you will find honest board and an honest bed for yourself and your sweetlady, and an honest bill to set you off in a sweet humour in themorning.""Nay, my good woman," interrupted Wogan, hastily. "This is no sweet ladyof mine, nor are we like to stay until the morrow. The truth is, we area party of four, but our carriage snapped its axle some miles back. Theyoung lady's uncle and aunt are following us, and we wait only for theirarrival."Wogan examined the inn and thought the disposition of it veryconvenient. It made three sides of a courtyard open to the road. On theright and the bottom were farm-buildings and a stable; the inn was thewing upon the left hand. The guest rooms, of which there were four, wereall situated upon the first floor and looked out upon a little thicketof fir-trees at the back of the wing. They were approached by astaircase, which ran up with a couple of turns from the courtyard itselfand on the outside of the house-wall. Wogan was very pleased with thatstaircase; it was narrow. He was pleased, too, because there were noother travellers in the inn. He went back to the landlady."It is very likely," said he, "that my friends when they come will,after all, choose to stay here for the night. I will hire all the roomsupon the first floor."The landlady was no less pleased than Mr. Wogan. She had a thought thatthey were a runaway couple and served them breakfast in a little parlourup the stairs with many sly and confusing allusions. She becameconfused, however, when after breakfast Clementina withdrew to bed, andWogan sauntered out into the high-road, where he sat himself down on abank to watch for Captain Misset. All day he sat resolutely with hisback towards the inn. The landlady inferred that here were loversquarrelling, and she was yet more convinced of it when she entered theparlour in the afternoon to lay the table for dinner and saw Clementinastanding wistfully at the window with her eyes upon that unmoving back.Wogan meanwhile for all his vigilance watched the road but ill.Merchants, pedlars, friars, and gentlemen travelling for their pleasurepassed down the road into Italy. Mr. Wogan saw them not, or saw themwith unseeing eyes. His eyes were turned inwards, and he gazed at apicture that his heart held of a room in that inn behind him, whereafter all her dangers and fatigues a woman slept in peace. Towardsevening fewer travellers passed by, but there came one party of sixwell-mounted men whose leader suddenly bowed his head down upon hishorse's neck as he rode past. Wogan had preached a sermon on thecarelessness which comes with danger's diminutions, but he was verytired. The head was nodding; the blow might fall from nowhere, and henot know.At nightfall he returned and mounted to the parlour, where Clementinaawaited him."There is no sign of Captain Misset," said he.Wogan was puzzled by the way in which Clementina received the news. Fora moment he thought that her eyes lightened, and that she was glad; thenit seemed to him that her eyes clouded and suddenly as if with pain. Norwas her voice a guide to him, for she spoke her simple question withoutsignificance,--"Must we wait, then, till the morning?""There is a chance that they may come before the morning. I will watchon the top stair, and if they come I will make bold to wake yourHighness."Their hostess upon this brought their supper into the room, and Woganbecame at once aware of a change in her demeanour. She no longerembarrassed them with her patronage, nor did she continue her slyallusions to the escapades of lovers. On the contrary, she was of anextreme deference. Under the deference, too, Wogan seemed to remark acertain excitement."Have you other lodgers to-night?" he asked carelessly."No, sir," said she. "Travellers are taken by a big house and a bustleof servants. They stay at the Vapore Inn when they stay at Peri, and totheir cost."As soon as she had left the room Wogan asked of Clementina,--"When did her manner change?""I had not remarked the change till now," replied Clementina.Wogan became uneasy. He went down into the courtyard, and found itempty. There was a light in the kitchen, and he entered the room. Thelandlady was having her supper in company with her few servants, andthere were one or two peasants from the village. Wogan chatted with themfor a few minutes and came out again much relieved of his fears. Hethought, however, it might be as well to see that his pony was ready foran emergency. He crossed silently to the stable, which he found dark asthe courtyard. The door was latched, but not locked. He opened it andwent in. The building was long, with many stalls ranged side by side.Wogan's pony stood in the end stall opposite to the door. Wogan tookdown the harness from the pegs and began to fix it ready on the pony. Hehad just put the collar over its head when he heard a horse stamping inone of the stalls at the other end of the stables. Now he had noticed inthe morning that there were only two horses in the building, and thosetwo were tied up in the stalls next to that which his pony occupied. Hewalked along the range of stalls. The two horses were there, then came agap of empty stalls, and beyond the gap he counted six other horses.Wogan became at once curious about those six other horses. They might ofcourse be farm-horses, but he wished to know. It was quite dark withinthe building; he had only counted the horses by the noise of theirmovements in their stalls, the rattle of their head-ropes, and thepawing of their feet. He dared not light a lamp, but horses as a ruleknew him for a friend. He went into the stall of the first, petted itfor a moment and ran his hand down its legs. He repeated the processwith the second, and with so much investigation he was content. Nofarm-horse that ever Wogan had seen had such a smooth sleek skin orsuch fine legs as had those two over which he had passed his hands. "Nowwhere are the masters of those horses?" he asked himself. "Why do theyleave their cattle at this inn and not show themselves in the kitchen orthe courtyard? Why do they not ask for a couple of my rooms?" Woganstood in the dark and reflected. Then he stepped out of the door witheven more caution than he had used when entering by it. He stolesilently along to the shed where his trap was housed, and felt beneaththe seat. From beneath the seat he drew out a coil of rope, and a lamp.The rope he wound about him under his coat. Then he went back to hisstaircase and the parlour.Clementina could read in his face that something was amiss, but she hada great gift of silence. She waited for him to speak. Wogan unwound thecoil of rope from his body."Your Highness laughed at me for that I would not part with my rope. Ihave a fear this night will prove my wisdom." And with that he begandeliberately to break up the chairs in the room. Clementina asked noquestions; she watched him take the rungs and bars of the chairs andtest their strength. Then he cut the coil of rope in half and tied loopsat intervals; into the loops he fitted the wooden rungs. Wogan workedexpeditiously for an hour without opening his mouth. In an hour he hadfashioned a rope-ladder. He went to the window which looked out on theback of the wing, upon the little thicket of fir-trees. He opened thewindow cautiously and dropped the ladder down the wall."Your Highness has courage," said he. "The ladder does not touch theground, but it will not be far to drop, should there be need."The window of Clementina's bedroom was next to that of the parlour andlooked out in the same direction. Wogan fixed the rope-ladder securelyto the foot of the bed and drew the bed close to the window. He left thelamp upon a chair and went back to the parlour and explained."Your Highness," he added, "there may be no cause for any alarm. On theother hand, the Governor of Trent may have taken a leaf from my ownbook. He may have it in mind to snatch your Highness out of Italy evenas I did out of Austria; and of a truth it would be the easierundertaking. Here are we five miles from the border and in a smalltavern set apart from a small village, instead of in the thick of anarmed town.""But we might start now," she said. "We might leave a message behind forMrs. Misset and wait for her in Verona.""I had thought of that. But if my mere suspicion is the truth, the sixmen will not be so far from their six horses that we could drive awayunnoticed by any one of them. Nor could we hope to outpace them and sixmen upon an open road; indeed, I would sooner face them at the head ofmy staircase here. And while I hold them back your Highness can creepdown that ladder.""And hide in the thicket," she interrupted. "Yet--yet--that leaves youalone. I could give you some help;" and her face coloured. "You were sokind as to tell me I had courage. I could at the least load yourpistols.""You would do that?" cried Wogan. "Aye, but you would, you would!"For the first time that day he forgot to address her with the ceremonyof her title. All that day he had schooled his tongue to the use of it.They were not man and woman, though his heart would have it so; theywere princess and servant, and every minute he must remember it. But heforgot it now. Delicate she was to look upon as any princess who hadever adorned a court, delicate and fresh, rich-voiced and young, buthere was the rare woman flashing out like a light over stormy seas, thespirit of her and her courage!"You would load my pistols!" he repeated, his whole face alight. "To besure, you would do that. But I ask you, I think, for a higher courage. Iask you to climb down that ladder, to run alone, taking shelter whenthere's need, back to that narrow gorge we saw where the path leadsupwards to the bluff. There was a hut; two hours would take you to it,and there you should be safe. I will keep the enemy back till you aregone. If I can, when all is over here I'll follow you. If I do not come,why, you must--""Ah, but you will come," said she, with a smile. "I have no fears butthat you will come;" and she added, "Else would you never persuade meto go.""Well, then, I will come. At all events, Captain Misset and his wifewill surely come down the road to-morrow. If I rap twice upon your door,you will take that for my signal. But it is very likely I shall not rapat all."Wogan shivered as he spoke. It was not for the first time during thatconversation, and a little later, as they stood together in the passageby the stair-head, Clementina twice remarked that he shivered again.There was an oil lamp burning against the passage wall, and by its lightshe could see that on that warm night of spring his face was pinchedwith cold. He was in truth chilled to the bone through lack of sleep;his eyes had the strained look of a man strung to the breaking point,and at the sight of him the mother in her was touched."What if I watched to-night?" she said. "What if you slept?"Wogan laughed the suggestion aside."I shall sleep very well," said he, "upon that top stair. I can countupon waking, though only the lowest step tremble beneath a foot." Thishe said, meaning not to sleep at all, as Clementina very wellunderstood. She leaned over the balustrade by Wogan's side and lookedupwards to the sky. The night was about them like a perfume of flowers.A stream bubbled and sang over stones behind the inn. The courtyardbelow was very silent. She laid a hand upon his sleeve and said againin a pleading voice,--"Let me watch to-night. There is no danger. You are racked bysleeplessness, and phantoms born of it wear the face of truth to you. Weare safe; we are in Italy. The stars tell me so. Let me watch to-night."And at once she was startled. He withdrew his arm so roughly that itseemed he flung off his hand; he spoke in a voice so hoarse and roughshe did not know it for his. And indeed it was a different man who nowconfronted her,--a man different from the dutiful servant who hadrescued her, different even from the man who had held her so tenderly inhis arms on the road to Ala."Go to your room," said he. "You must not stay here."She stepped back in her surprise and faced him."Every minute," he cried in a sort of exasperation, "I bid myselfremember the great gulf between you and me; every minute you forget it.I make a curtain of your rank, your title, and--let us be frank--yourdestiny; I hang the curtain up between us, and with a gentle hand youtear it down. At the end of it all I am flesh and blood. Why did I sitthe whole long dreary day out on the bank by the roadside there? Towatch? I could not describe to you one traveller out of them all whopassed. Why, then? Ask yourself! It was not that I might stand by yourside afterwards in the glamour of an Italian night with the starspulsing overhead like a smile upon your lips, and all the worldwhispering! You must not stay here!"His eyes burnt upon her; his hands shook; from head to foot he was hotand fierce with passion, and in spite of herself she kindled to it. Thathe loved she knew before, but his description of his city of dreams hadgiven to him in her thoughts a touch of fancifulness, had led her toconceive of his love as something dreamlike, had somehow spiritualisedhim to the hindrance of her grasp of him as flesh and blood. Thus, sheunderstood, she might well have seemed to be trifling with him, thoughnothing was further from her thoughts. But now he was dangerous; lovehad made him dangerous, and to her. She knew it, and in spite of herselfshe gloried in the knowledge. Her heart leaped into her eyes and shonethere responsive, unafraid. The next moment she lowered her head. But hehad seen the unmistakable look in her eyes. Even as she stood with herbowed head, he could not but feel that every fibre in her body thrilled;he could not but know the transfigured expression of her face."I had no thought to hurt you," she said, and her voice trembled, and itwas not with fear or any pain. Wogan took a step towards her and checkedhimself. He spoke sharply between clenched teeth."Lock your door," said he.The curtain between them was down. Wogan had patched and patched itbefore; but it was torn down now, and they had seen each other withoutso much as that patched semblance of a screen to veil their eyes.Clementina did not answer him or raise her head. She went quietly intoher room. Wogan did not move until she had locked the door.Then he disposed himself for the night. He sat down across the top stepof the stairs with his back propped against the passage wall. Facing himwas the door of Clementina's room, on his left hand the passage with theoil lamp burning on a bracket, stretched to the house-wall; on his rightthe stairs descended straight for some steps, then turned to the leftand ran down still within view to a point where again they turnedoutwards into the courtyard. Wogan saw to the priming of his pistols andlaid them beside him. He looked out to his right over the low-roofedbuildings opposite, and saw the black mountains with their glimmeringcrests, and just above one spur a star which flashed with a particularbrightness. He was very tired and very cold; he drew his cloak abouthim; he leaned back against the wall and watched that star. So long ashe saw that, he was awake, and therefore he watched it. At what timesleep overtook him he could never discover. It seemed to him always thathe did not even for a second lose sight of that star. Only it dilated,it grew brighter, it dropped towards earth, and he was not in any waysurprised. He was merely pleased with it for behaving in so attractiveand natural a way. Then, however, the strange thing happened. When thestar was hung in the air between earth and sky and nearer to the earth,it opened like a flower and disclosed in its bright heart the face of agirl, which was yet brighter. And that girl's face, with the broad lowbrows and the dark eyes and the smile which held all earth and much ofheaven, stooped and stooped out of fire through the cool dark towardshim until her lips touched his. It was then that he woke, quietly as washis wont, without any start, without opening his eyes, and at once hewas aware of someone breathing.He raised his eyelids imperceptibly and peered through his eyelashes. Hesaw close beside him the lower part of a woman's frock, and it was thefrock which Clementina wore. One wild question set his heart leapingwithin his breast. "Was there truth in the dream?" he asked himself; andwhile he was yet formulating the question, Clementina's breathing wassuddenly arrested. It seemed to him, too, from the little that he sawbetween his closed eyes, that she stiffened from head to foot. She stoodin that rigid attitude, very still. Something new had plainly occurred,something that brought with it a shock of surprise. Wogan, withoutmoving his head or opening his eyes a fraction wider, looked down thestaircase and saw just above the edge of one of the steep stairs a facewatching them,--a face with bright, birdlike eyes and an indescribableexpression of cunning.Wogan had need of all his self-control. He felt that his eyelids werefluttering on his cheeks, that his breath had stopped even asClementina's had. For the face which he saw was one quite familiar tohim, though never familiar with that expression. It was the face of aneasy-going gentleman who made up for the lack of his wit by theheartiness of his laugh, and to whom Wogan had been drawn because of hissimplicity. There was no simplicity in Henry Whittington's face now. Itremained above the edge of the step staring at them with a look ofcrafty triumph, a very image of intrigue. Then it disappeared silently.Wogan remembered the voice of the man who had spurred past the doorwayof the inn at Ala. He knew now why he had thought to recognise it. Theexclamation had been one of anger,--because he had seen Clementina andhimself in Italy? He had spurred onwards--towards Trent? There werethose six horses in the stables. Whittington's face had disappeared verysilently. "An honest man," thought Wogan, "does not take off his bootsbefore he mounts the stairs."Clementina was still standing at his side. Without changing his attitudehe rapped with his knuckles gently twice upon the boards of the stair.She turned towards him with a gasp of the breath. He rapped again twice,fearful lest she should speak to him. She understood that he had givenher the signal to go. She turned on her heel and slipped back into herroom.CHAPTER XIXWogan did not move. In a few minutes he heard voices whispering in thecourtyard below. By that time the Princess should have escaped into thethicket. The stairs creaked, and again he saw a face over the edge of astep. It was the flabby face of a stranger, who turned and whispered inGerman to others behind him. The face rose; a pair of shoulders, aportly body, and a pair of unbooted legs became visible. The man carrieda drawn sword; between his closed eyelashes Wogan saw that four otherswith the like arms followed. There should have been six; but the sixthwas Harry Whittington, who, to be sure, was not likely to show himselfto Wogan awake. The five men passed the first turn of the stairs withoutnoise. Wogan was very well pleased with their noiselessness. Men withoutboots to their feet were at a very great disadvantage when it came to afight. He allowed them to come up to the second turn, he allowed theleader to ascend the last straight flight until he was almost withinsword-reach, and then he quietly rose to his feet."Gentlemen," said he, "I grieve to disappoint you; but I have hired thislodging for the night."The leader stopped, discountenanced, and leaned back against hisfollowers. "You are awake?" he stammered."It is a habit of mine."The leader puffed out his cheeks and assumed an appearance of dignity."Then we are saved some loss of time. For we were coming to awake you.""It was on that account, no doubt," said Wogan, folding his arms, "thatyou have all taken off your boots. But, pardon me, your four friendsbehind appear in spite of what I have said to be thrusting you forward.I beg you to remain on the step on which you stand. For if you mount onemore, you will put me to the inconvenience of drawing my sword."Wogan leaned back idly against the wall. The Princess should now be onthe road and past the inn--unless perhaps Whittington was at watchbeneath the windows. That did not seem likely, however. Whittingtonwould work in the dark and not risk detection. The leader of the fourhad stepped back at Wogan's words, but he said very bravely,--"I warn you to use no violence to officers in discharge of their duty.We hold a warrant for your arrest.""Indeed?" said Wogan, with a great show of surprise. "I cannot bringmyself to believe it. On what counts?""Firstly, in that you stole away her Highness the Princess Clementinafrom the Emperor's guardianship on the night of the 27th of April atInnspruck.""Did I indeed do that?" said Wogan, carelessly. "Upon my word, thiscloak of mine is frayed. I had not noticed it;" and he picked at thefringe of his cloak with some annoyance."In the second place, you did kill and put to death, at a wayside innoutside Stuttgart, one Anton Gans, servant to the Countess of Berg."Wogan smiled amicably."I should be given a medal for that with a most beautiful ribbon ofsalmon colour, I fancy, salmon or aquamarine. Which would look best, doyou think, on a coat of black velvet? I wear black velvet, as yourrelations will too, my friend, if you forget which step your foot is on.Shall we say salmon colour for the ribbon? The servant was a noxiousfellow. We will."The leader of the four, who had set his foot on the forbidden step,withdrew it quickly. Wogan continued in the same quiet voice,--"You say you have a warrant?" And a voice very different from hisleader's--a voice loud and decisive, which came from the last of thefour--answered him,--"We have. The Emperor's warrant.""And how comes it," asked Wogan, "that the Emperor's warrant runs inVenice?""Because the Emperor's arm strikes in Venice," cried the hindermostagain, and he pushed past the man in front of him."That we have yet to see," cried Wogan, and his sword flashed naked inhis hand. At the same moment the man who had spoken drew a pistol andfired. He fired in a hurry; the bullet cut a groove in the rail of thestair and flattened itself against the passage wall."The Emperor's arm shakes, it seems," said Wogan, with a laugh. Theleader of the party, thrust forward by those behind him, was lifted tothe forbidden step."I warned you," cried Wogan, and his sword darted out. But whether fromdesign or accident, the man uttered a cry and stumbled forward on hisface. Wogan's sword flashed over his shoulder, and its point sank intothe throat of the soldier behind him. That second soldier fell back,with the blood spurting from his wound, upon the man with the smokingpistol, who thrust him aside with an oath."Make room," he cried, and lunged over the fallen leader."Here's a fellow in the most desperate hurry," said Wogan, and parryingthe thrust he disengaged, circled, disengaged again, and lunging feltthe soldier's leather coat yield to his point. "The Emperor's arm isweak, too, one might believe," he laughed, and he drove his sword home.The man fell upon the stairs; but as Wogan spoke the leader crouched onthe step plucked violently at his cloak below his knees. Wogan had notrecovered from his lunge; the jerk at the cloak threw him off hisbalance, his legs slipped forward under him, in another moment he wouldhave come crashing down the stairs upon his back, and at the bottom ofthe flight there stood one man absolutely unharmed supporting hiscomrade who had been wounded in the throat. Wogan felt the jerk,understood the danger, and saw its remedy at the same instant. He didnot resist the impetus, he threw his body into it, he sprang from thestairs forwards, tearing his cloak from the leader's hands, he sprangacross the leader, across the soldier who had fired at him, and hedropped with all his weight into the arms of the third man with thepierced throat. The blood poured out from the wound over Wogan's faceand breast in a blinding jet. The fellow uttered one choking cry andreeling back carried the comrade who supported him against thebalustrade at the turn of the stairs. Wogan did not give that fourth mantime to disengage himself, but dropping his sword caught him by thethroat as the third wounded man slipped between them to the ground.Wogan bent his new opponent backwards over the balustrade, and felt themuscles of his back resist and then slacken. Wogan bent him further andfurther over until it seemed his back must break. But it was thebalustrade which broke. Wogan heard it crack. He had just time to loosehis hands and step back, and the railing and the man poised on the railfell outwards into the courtyard. Wogan stepped forward and peereddownwards. The soldier had not broken his neck, for Wogan saw himwrithe upon the ground. He bent his head to see the better; he heard areport behind him, and a bullet passed through the crown of his hat. Heswung round and saw the leader of the four with one of his own pistolssmoking in his hand."You!" cried Wogan. "Sure, here's a rabbit attacking a terrier dog;" andhe sprang up the stairs. The man threw away the pistol, fell on hisknees, and held up his hands for mercy."Now what will I do to you?" said Wogan. "Did you not fire at my back?That's reprehensible cowardice. And with my own pistol, too, which issheer impertinence. What will I do with you?" The man's expression wasso pitiable, his heavy cheeks hung in such despairing folds, that Woganwas stirred to laughter. "Well, you have put me to a deal ofinconvenience," said he; "but I will be merciful, being strong, beingmost extraordinary strong. I'll send you back to your master the Emperorwith a message from me that four men are no manner of use at all. Comein here for a bit."Wogan took the unfortunate man and led him into the parlour. Then he lita lamp, and making his captive sit where he could see any movement thathe made, he wrote a very polite note to his Most Catholic Majesty theEmperor wherein he pointed out that it was a cruel thing to send fourpoor men who had never done harm to capture Charles Wogan; that no Kingor Emperor before who had wanted to capture Charles Wogan, of whom therewere already many, and by God's grace he hoped there would be more, hadever despatched less than a regiment of horse upon so hazardous anexpedition; and that when Captain O'Toole might be expected to bestanding side by side with Wogan, it was usually thought necessary toadd seven batteries of artillery and a field marshal. Wogan thereuponwent on to point out that Peri was in Venetian territory, which his MostCatholic Majesty had violated, and that Charles Wogan would accordinglyfeel it his bounden duty not to sleep night or day until he had made aconfederation of Italian states to declare war and captivity upon hisMost Catholic Majesty. Wogan concluded with the assurances of hisprofoundest respects and was much pleased by his letter, which he sealedand compelled his prisoner upon his knees to promise to deliver into theEmperor's own hands."Now where is that pretty warrant?" said Wogan, as soon as thisimportant function was accomplished."It is signed by the Governor of Trent," said the man."Who in those regions is the Emperor's deputy. Hand it over."The man handed it over reluctantly."Now," continued Wogan, "here is paper and ink and a chair. Sit down andwrite a full confession of your audacious incursion into a friendlycountry, and just write, if you please, how much you paid the landladyto hear nothing of what was doing.""You will not force me to that," cried the fellow."By no means. The confession must be voluntary and written of your ownfree will. So write it, my friend, without any compulsion whatever, orI'll throw you out of the window."Then followed a deal of sighing and muttering. But the confession waswritten and handed to Wogan, who glanced over it."But there's an omission," said he. "You make mention of only five men.""There were only five men on the staircase.""But there are six horses in the stables. Will you be good enough towrite down at what hour on what day Mr. Harry Whittington knocked at theGovernor's door in Trent and told the poor gout-ridden man that thePrincess and Mr. Wogan had put up at the Cervo Inn at Ala."The soldier turned a startled face on Wogan."So you knew!" he cried."Oh, I knew," answered Wogan, suddenly. "Look at me! Did you ever seeeyes so heavy with want of sleep, a face so worn by it, a body so jerkedupon strings like a showman's puppet? Write, I tell you! We who servethe King are trained to wakefulness. Write! I am in haste!""Yet your King does not reign!" said the man, wonderingly, and he wrote.He wrote the truth about Harry Whittington; for Wogan was looking overhis shoulder."Did he pay you to keep silence as to his share in the business?" askedWogan, as the man scattered some sand over the paper. "There is no wordof it in your handwriting."The man added a sentence and a figure."That will do," said Wogan. "I may need it for a particular purpose;"and he put the letter carefully away in the pocket of his coat. "For avery particular purpose," he added. "It will be well for you to conveyyour party back with all haste to Trent. You are on the wrong side ofthe border."CHAPTER XXWogan went from the parlour and climbed out of the house by therope-ladder. He left it hanging at the window and walked up theglimmering road, a ribbon of ghostly white between dim hills. It wasthen about half-past twelve of the night, and not a feather of cloudstained the perfection of the sky. It curved above his head spangledlike a fair lady's fan, and unfathomably blue like Clementina's eyeswhen her heart stirred in their depths. He reached the little footwayand turned into the upward cleft of the hills. He walked now into thethick night of a close-grown clump of dwarf-oaks, which weaved so densea thatch above his head that he knocked against the boles. The treesthinned, he crossed here and there a dimpled lawn in the pure starshine,he traversed a sparse grove of larches in the dreamy twilight, he cameout again upon the grassy lip of a mountain torrent which henceforthkept him company, and which, speaking with many voices, seemed a friendtrying to catch his mood. For here it leaped over an edge of rock, andhere in a tiny waterfall, and splashed into a pellucid pool, and thereverberating noise filled the dell with a majestic din; there it ransmoothly kissing its banks with a murmur of contentment, embosoming thestars; beyond, it chafed hoarsely between narrow walls; and again half amile higher up it sang on shallows and evaded the stones with a tinklinglaugh. But Wogan was deaf to the voices; he mounted higher, the treesceased, he came into a desolate country of boulders; and the higher heascended, the more heavily he walked. He stopped and washed his face andhands clean of blood-stains in the stream. Above him and not very faraway was the lonely hut.He came upon it quite suddenly. For the path climbed steeply at theback, and slipping from the mouth of a narrow gully he stood upon theedge of a small plateau in the centre of which stood the cabin, a littlehouse of pinewood built with some decoration and elegance. One unglazedwindow was now unshuttered, and the light from a lantern streamed out ofit in a yellow fan, marking the segment of a circle upon the rough rockyground and giving to the dusk of the starshine a sparkle of gold.Through the window Wogan could see into the room. It was furnishedsimply, but with an eye to comfort. He saw too the girl he had dared tobear off from the thick of a hostile town. She was lying upon a couch,her head resting upon her folded arms. She was asleep, and in a placemost solitary. Behind the cabin rose a black forest of pines, prickingthe sky with their black spires, and in front of it the ground fellsharply to the valley, in which no light gleamed; beyond the valley rosethe dim hills again. Nor was there any sound except the torrent. Theair at this height was keen and fresh with a smell of primeval earth.Wogan hitched his cloak about his throat, and his boots rang upon therock. The Princess raised her head; Wogan walked to the door and stoodfor a little with his hand upon the latch. He lifted it and entered.Clementina looked at him for a moment, and curiously. She had noquestions as to how his struggle with the Governor of Trent's emissarieshad fared. Wogan could understand by some unspoken sympathy that thatmatter had no place in her thoughts. She stood up in an attitude ofexpectation."It grows towards morning?" said she."In two hours we shall have the dawn," he replied; and there was asilence between them."You found this cabin open?" said Wogan."The door was latched. I loosed a shutter. The night is very still.""One might fancy there were no others alive but you and me across allthe width of the world.""One could wish it," she said beneath her breath, and crossed to thewindow where she stayed, breathing the fresh night. The sigh, however,had reached to Wogan's ears. He took his pistols from his belt, and toengage his thoughts, loaded the one which had been fired at him. After alittle he looked up and saw that Clementina's eyes dwelt upon him withthat dark steady look, which held always so much of mystery and toldalways one thing plainly, her lack of fear. And she said suddenly,--"There was trouble at Peri. I climbed from the window. I had almostforgotten. As I ran down the road past the open court, I saw a littlegroup of men gathered about the foot of the staircase! I was in twominds whether to come back and load your pistols or to obey you. Iobeyed, but I was in much fear for you. I had almost forgotten, it seemsso long ago. Tell me! You conquered; it is no new thing. Tell me how!"She did not move from the window, she kept her eyes fixed upon Woganwhile he told his story, but it was quite clear to him that she did nothear one half of it. And when he had done she said,--"How long is it till the morning?"Wogan had spun his tale out, but half an hour enclosed it, from thebeginning to the end. He became silent again; but he was aware at oncethat silence was more dangerous than speech, for in the silence he couldhear both their hearts speaking. He began hurriedly to talk of theirjourney, and there could be no more insidious topic for him to lightupon. For he spoke of the Road, and he had already been given a warningthat to the romance of the Road her heart turned like a compass-needleto the north. They were both gipsies, for all that they had no Egyptianblood. That southward road from Innspruck was much more than a merehighway of travel between a starting-place and a goal, even to these twoto whom the starting-place meant peril and the goal the firstopportunity of sleep."Even in our short journey," said Clementina, "how it climbed hillsidesangle upon angle, how it swept through the high solitudes of ice whereno trees grow, where silence lives; how it dropped down into greenvalleys and the noise of streams! And it still sweeps on, through darkand light, a glimmer at night, a glare in the midday, between lines ofpoplars, hidden amongst vines, through lighted cities, down to Veniceand the sea. If one could travel it, never retracing a step, pitching atent by the roadside when one willed! That were freedom!" She stoppedwith a remarkable abruptness. She turned her eyes out of the window fora little. Then again she asked,--"How long till morning?""But one more hour."She came back into the room and seated herself at the table."You gave me some hint at Innspruck of an adventurous ride from Ohlau,"and she drew her breath sharply at the word, as though the name with allits associations struck her a blow, "into Strasbourg. Tell me itshistory. So will this hour pass."He told her as he walked about the room, though his heart was not in thetelling, nor hers in the hearing, until he came to relate the story ofhis escape from the inn a mile or so beyond Stuttgart. He described howhe hid in the garden, how he crossed the rich level of lawn to thelighted window, how to his surprise he was admitted without a questionby an old bookish gentleman--and thereupon he ceased so suddenly thatClementina turned her head aside and listened."Did you hear a step?" she asked in a low voice."No."And they both listened. No noise came to their ears but the brawling ofthe torrent. That, however, filled the room, drowning all the naturalmurmurs of the night."Indeed, one would not hear a company of soldiers," said Clementina. Shecrossed to the window."Yet you heard my step, and it waked you," said Wogan, as he followedher."I listened for it in my sleep," said she.For a second time that night they stood side by side looking upondarkness and the spangled sky. Only there was no courtyard with itssigns of habitation. Clementina drew herself away suddenly from thesill. Wogan at once copied her example."You saw--?" he began."No one," said she, bending her dark eyes full upon him. "Will you closethe shutter?"Wogan drew back instinctively. He had a sense that this open window,though there was no one to spy through it, was in some way a security.Suppose that he closed it! That mere act of shutting himself and herapart, though it gave not one atom more of privacy, still had asemblance of giving it. He was afraid. He said,--"There is no need. Who should spy on us? What would it matter if we werespied upon?""I ask you to close that shutter."From the quiet, level voice he could infer nothing of the thought behindthe request; and her unwavering eyes told him nothing."Why?""Because I am afraid, as you are," said she, and she shivered. "Youwould not have it shut. I am afraid while it stays open. There is toomuch expectation in the night. Those great black pines stand waiting;the stars are very bright and still, they wait, holding their breath. Itseems to me the whirl of the earth has stopped. Never was there a nightso hushed in expectation;" and these words too she spoke without afalter or a lifting note, breathing easily like a child asleep, and notchanging her direct gaze from Wogan's face. "I am afraid," shecontinued, "of you and me. I am the more afraid;" and Wogan set theshutter in its place and let the bar fall. Clementina with a breath ofrelief came back to her seat at the table."How long is it till dawn?" she said."We have half an hour," said Wogan."Well, that old man--Count von Ahlen, you said--received you, heapedlogs upon his fire, stanched your wounds, and asked no questions. Well?You stopped suddenly. Tell me all!"Wogan looked doubtfully at her and then quickly seated himself overagainst her."All? I will. It will be no new thing to you;" and as Clementina raisedher eyes curiously to his, he met her gaze and so spoke the restlooking at her with her own direct gaze."Why did he ask no question, seeing me disordered, wounded, a bandit,for all he knew, with a murder on my hands? Because thirty years beforeCount Philip Christopher von Koenigsmarck had come in just that same wayover the lawn to the window, and had sat by that log-fire and charmedthe old gentleman into an envy by his incomparable elegance and wit.""Koenigsmarck!" exclaimed the girl. She knew the history of thatbrilliant and baleful adventurer at the Court of Hanover. "He came asyou did, and wounded?""The Princess Sophia Dorothea was visiting the Duke of Wuertemberg,"Wogan explained, and Clementina nodded."Count Otto von Ahlen, my host," he continued, "had a momentary thoughtthat I was Koenigsmarck mysteriously returned as he had mysteriouslyvanished; and through these thirty years' retention of his youth, CountOtto could never think of Koenigsmarck but as a man young and tossed in afroth of passion. He would have it to the end that I had escaped fromsuch venture as had Koenigsmarck; he would have it my wounds were themere offset to a love well worth them; he _would_ envy me. 'Passion,'said he, 'without passion there can be no great thing.'""And the saying lived in your thoughts," cried Clementina. "I do notwonder. 'Without passion there can be no great thing!' Can books teacha man so much?""Nay, it was an hour's talk with Koenigsmarck which set the old man'sthoughts that way; and though Koenigsmarck talked never so well, I wouldnot likely infer from his talk an eternal and universal truth. CountOtto left me alone while he fetched me food, and he left me in a panic.""A panic?" said Clementina, with a little laugh. "You!""Yes. That first mistake of me for Koenigsmarck, that insistence that mycase was Koenigsmarck's--""There was a shadow of truth in it--even then?" said Clementina,suddenly leaning across the table towards him. Wogan strove not to seethe light of her joy suddenly sparkling in her eyes."I sat alone, feeling the ghost of Koenigsmarck in the room with me," heresumed quickly, and his voice dropped, and he looked round the littlecabin. Clementina looked round quickly too. Then their eyes met again."I heard his voice menacing me. 'For love of a queen I lived. For loveof a queen I died most horribly; and it would have gone better with thequeen had she died the same death at the same time--'" And Clementinainterrupted him with a cry which was fierce."Ah, who can say that, and know it for the truth--except the Queen? Youmust ask her in her prison at Ahlden, and that you cannot do. She hasher memories maybe. Maybe she has built herself within these thirtyyears a world of thought so real, it makes her gaolers shadows, andthat prison a place of no account, save that it gives her solitude andis so more desirable than a palace. I can imagine it;" and then shestopped, and her voice dropped to the low tone which Wogan had used."You looked round you but now and most fearfully. Is Koenigsmarck'sspirit here?""No," exclaimed Wogan; "I would to God it were! I would I felt itsmemories chilling me as they chilled me that night! But I cannot. Icannot as much as hear a whisper. All the heavens are dumb," he cried."And the earth waits," said Clementina.She did not move, neither did Wogan. They both sat still as statues.They had come to the great crisis of their destiny. A change of posture,a gesture, an assumed expression which might avert the small, the merelyawkward indiscretions of the tongue, they both knew to be futile. It wasin the mind of each of them that somehow without their participation thetruth would out that night; for the dawn was so long in coming."All the way up from Peri," said Wogan, suddenly, "I strove to make realto myself the ignominy, the odium, the scandal.""But you could not," said Clementina, with a nod of comprehension, asthough that inability was a thing familiar to her."When I reached the hut, and saw that fan of light spreading from thewindow, as it spread over the lawn beyond Stuttgart, I remembered Ottovon Ahlen and his talk of Koenigsmarck. I tried to hear the menaces.""But you could not.""No. I saw you through the window," he cried, "stretched out upon thatcouch, supple and young and sweet. I saw the lamplight on your hair,searching out the gold in its dark brown. I could only remember howoften I have at nights wakened and reached out my hands in the vaindream that they would meet in its thick coils, that I should feel itssilk curl and nestle about my fingers. There's the truth out, thoughit's a familiar truth to you ever since I held you in my arms beneaththe stars upon the road to Ala.""It was known to me a day before," said she; "but it was known to you solong ago as that night in the garden.""Oh, before then," cried Wogan."When? Let the whole truth be known, since we know so much.""Why, on that first day at Ohlau.""In the great hall. I stood by the fire and raised my head, and our eyesmet. I do remember.""But I had no thought ever to let you know. I was the King'sman-at-arms, as I am now;" and he burst into a harsh laugh. "Here'smadness! The King's man-at-arms dumps him down in the King's chair! Ihad a thought to live to you, if you understand, as a man writes a poemto his mistress, to make my life the poem, an unsigned poem that youwould never read, and yet unsigned, unread, would make its creator gladand fill his days. And here's the poem!" and at that a great cry ofterror leaped from Clementina's lips and held them both aghast.Wogan had risen from his seat; with a violent gesture he had thrown backhis cloak, and his coat beneath was stained and dark with blood.Clementina stood opposite to him, all her quiet and her calmness gone.There was no longer any mystery in her eyes. Her bosom rose and fell;she pointed a trembling hand towards his breast."You are hurt. Again for love of me you are hurt.""It is not my wound," he answered. "It is blood I spilt for you;" hetook a step towards her, and in a second she was between his arms,sobbing with all the violence of passion which she had so longrestrained. Wogan was wrung by it. That she should weep at all was athought strange to him; that he should cause the tears was a sorrowwhich tortured him. He touched her hair with his lips, he took her bythe arms and would have set her apart; but she clung to him, hiding herface, and the sobs shook her. Her breast was strained against him, hefelt the beating of her heart, a fever ran through all his blood. And ashe held her close, a queer inconsequential thought came into his mind.It shocked him, and he suddenly held her off."The blood upon my coat is wet," he cried. The odium, the scandal of aflight which would make her name a byword from London to Budapest, thathe could envisage; but that this blood upon his coat should stain thedress she wore--no! He saw indeed that the bodice was smeared a darkred."See, the blood stains you!" he cried."Why, then, I share it," she answered with a ringing voice of pride. "Ishare it with you;" and she smiled through her tears and a glowing blushbrightened upon her face. She stood before him, erect and beautiful.Through Wogan's mind there tripped a procession of delicate ladies whowould swoon gracefully at the sight of a pricked finger."That's John Sobieski speaking," he exclaimed, and with an emphasis ofdespair, "Poland's King! But I was mad! Indeed, I blame myself.""Blame!" she cried passionately, her whole nature rising in revoltagainst the word. "Are we to blame? We are man and woman. Who shall castthe stone? Are you to blame for that you love me? Who shall blame you?Not I, who thank you from my heart. Am I to blame? What have we heartsfor, then, if not to love? I have a thought--it may be very wrong. I donot know. I do not trouble to think--that I should be much more to blamedid I not love you too. There's the word spoken at the last," and shelowered her head.Even at that moment her gesture struck upon Wogan as strange. Itoccurred to him that he had never before seen her drop her eyes fromhis. He had an intuitive fancy that she would never do it but as adeliberate token of submission. Nor was he wrong. Her next words toldhim it was her white flag of surrender."I believe the spoken truth is best," she said simply in a low voicewhich ever so slightly trembled. "Unspoken and yet known by both of us,I think it would breed thoughts and humours we are best without.Unspoken our eyes would question, each to other, at every meeting; therewould be no health in our thoughts. But here's the truth out, and I amglad--in whichever way you find its consequence."She stood before him with her head bent. She made no movement save withher hands, which worked together slowly and gently."In whichever way--I--?" repeated Wogan."Yes," she answered. "There is Bologna. Say that Bologna is our goal. Ishall go with you to Bologna. There is Venice and the sea. Bid me go,then; hoist a poor scrap of a sail in an open boat. I shall adventureover the wide seas with you. What will you do?"Wogan drew a long breath. The magnitude of the submission paralysed him.The picture which she evoked was one to blind him as with a glory ofsunlight. He remained silent for a while. Then he said timidly,--"There is Ohlau."The girl shivered. The name meant her father, her mother, their grief,the disgrace upon her home. But she answered only with her question,--"What will you do?""You would lose a throne," he said, and even while he spoke was awarethat such a plea had not with her now the weight of thistledown."You would become the mock of Europe,--you that are its wonder;" and hesaw the corner of her lip curve in a smile of scorn."What will you do?" she asked, and he ceased to argue. It was he whomust decide; she willed it so. He turned towards the door of the hut andopened it. As he passed through, he heard her move behind, and lookingover his shoulder, he saw that she leaned down upon the table and kissedthe pistol which he had left loaded there. He stepped out of the cabinand closed the door behind him.The dark blue of the sky had faded to a pure and pearly colour; acolourless grey light invaded it; the pale stars were drowning; and allabout him the trees shivered to the morning. Wogan walked up and downthat little plateau, torn by indecision. Inside the sheltered cabin satwaiting the girl, whose destiny was in his hands. He had a sentence tospeak, and by it the flow of all her years would be irrevocably ordered.She had given herself over to him,--she, with her pride, her courage,her endurance. Wogan had seen too closely into her heart to bring anyfoolish charge of unmaidenliness against her. No, the very completenessof her submission raised her to a higher pinnacle. If she gave herself,she did so without a condition or a reserve, body and bone, heart andsoul. Wogan knew amongst the women of his time many who made theirbargain with the world, buying a semblance of esteem with a doublepayment of lies. This girl stood apart from them. She loved, thereforeshe entrusted herself simply to the man she loved, and bade him disposeof her. That very simplicity was another sign of her strength. She wasthe more priceless on account of it. He went back into the hut. Throughthe chinks of the shutter the morning stretched a grey finger; the roomwas filled with a vaporous twilight."We travel to Bologna," said he. "I will not have you wasted. Otherwomen may slink into kennels and stop their ears--not you. The King istrue to you. You are for the King."As she had not argued before, she did not argue now. She nodded her headand fastened her cloak about her throat. She followed him out of the hutand down the gorge. In the northeast the sky already flamed, and the sunwas up before they reached the road. They walked silently towards Peri,and Wogan was wondering whether in her heart she despised him when shestopped."I am to marry the King," said she."Yes," said Wogan."But you?" she said with her brows in a frown; "there is no compulsionon you to marry--anyone."Wogan was relieved of his fears. He broke into a laugh, to which shemade no reply. She still waited frowning for his answer."No woman," he said, "will ride on my black horse into my city ofdreams. You may be very sure I will not marry.""No. I would not have you married."Wogan laughed again, but Clementina was very serious. That she had noright to make any such claim did not occur to her. She was merelycertain and resolved that Wogan must not marry. She did not again referto the matter, nor could she so have done had she wished. For a littlelater and while they were not yet come to Peri, they were hailed frombehind, and turning about they saw Gaydon and O'Toole riding after them.O'Toole had his story to tell. Gaydon and he had put the courier to bedand taken his clothes and his money, and after the fellow had waked up,they had sat for a day in the bedroom keeping him quiet and telling thelandlord he was very ill. O'Toole finished his story as they came toPeri. They went boldly to the Cervo Inn, where all traces of the night'sconflict had been removed, and neither Wogan nor the landlady thought itprudent to make any mention of the matter; they waited for Misset andhis wife, who came the next day. And thus reunited they passed oneevening into the streets of Bologna and stopped at the Pilgrim Inn.CHAPTER XXIIn the parlour of the Pilgrim Inn the four friends took their leave ofthe Princess. She could not part from them lightly; she spoke with afaltering voice:--"Five days ago I was in prison at Innspruck, perpetually harassed andwith no hope of release but in you. Now I am in Bologna, and free. Icould not believe that any girl could find such friends except infairyland. You make the world very sweet and clean to me. I should thankyou. See my tears fall! Will you take them for my thanks? I have nowords which can tell as much of my thoughts towards you. My little womanI keep with me, but to you gentlemen I would gladly give a token each,so that you may know I will never forget, and so that you too may keepfor me a home within your memories." To Major Gaydon she gave a ringfrom off her finger, to Captain Misset a chain which she wore about herneck, to O'Toole, "her six feet four," as she said between laughter andtears, her watch. Each with a word of homage took his leave. Clementinaspoke to Wogan last of all, and when the room was empty but for thesetwo."To you, my friend," said she, "I give nothing. There is no need. But Iask for something. I would be in debt to you still deeper than I am. Iask for a handkerchief which I dropped from my shoulders one eveningunder the stars upon the road to Ala."Wogan bowed to her without a word. He drew the handkerchief from hisbreast slowly."It is true," said he; "I have no right to it;" and he gave it back. Buthis voice showed that he was hurt."You do not understand," said she, with a great gentleness. "You haveevery right which the truest loyalty can confer. I ask you for thishandkerchief, because I think at times to wear it in memory of a whitestone on which I could safely set my foot, for the stone was not straw."Wogan could not trust his voice to answer her. He took her hand to liftit to his lips."No," said she; "as at Innspruck, an honest handclasp, if you please."Wogan joined his three companions in the road, and they stood togetherfor a little, recounting to one another the incidents of the flight."Here's a great work ended," said Gaydon at last."We shall be historical," said O'Toole. "It is my one ambition. I wantto figure in the history-books and be a great plague and nuisance tochildren at school. I would sooner be cursed daily by schoolboys thanhave any number of golden statues in galleries. It means the more solidreputation;" and then he became silent. Gaydon had, besides his joy atthe rescue of Clementina, a private satisfaction that matters which werenone of his business had had no uncomfortable issue. Misset, too, wasthankful for that his wife had come safely to the journey's end. O'Toolealone had a weight upon his mind; and when Gaydon said, "Well, we may goto bed and sleep without alarms till sundown to-morrow," he remarked,--"There's Jenny. It was on my account she ventured with us.""That's true," said Wogan; "but we shall put an end to her captivity,now we are safe at Bologna. I have friends here who can serve me so far,I have no doubt."O'Toole was willing to leave the matter in Wogan's hands. If Wogan oncepledged himself to Jenny's release, why, Jenny _was_ released; and hewent to bed now with a quite equable mind. Wogan hurried off to thepalace of the Cardinal Origo, whom he found sitting at his supper. TheCardinal welcomed Wogan back very warmly."I trust, your Eminence," said Wogan, "that Farini is now at Bologna.""You come in the nick of time," replied the Cardinal. "This is his lastweek. There is a great demand for the seats; but you will see to it, Mr.Wogan, that the box is in the first tier.""There was to be a dinner, too, if I recollect aright. I have not dinedfor days. Your Eminence, I shall be extraordinarily hungry.""You will order what you will, Mr. Wogan. I am a man of a smallappetite and have no preferences.""Your Eminence's cook will be the better judge of what is seasonable.Your Eminence will be the more likely to secure the box in the firsttier. Shall we fix a day? To-morrow, if it please you. To-morrow I shallhave the honour, then, to be your Eminence's guest."The Cardinal started up from the table and stared at his visitor."You are jesting," said he."So little," replied Wogan, "that her Highness, the Princess Clementina,is now at the Pilgrim Inn at Bologna.""In Bologna!" cried the Cardinal; and he stood frowning in a greatperturbation of spirit. "This is great news," he said, but in a doubtfulvoice which Wogan did not understand. "This is great news, to be sure;"and he took a turn or two across the room."Not wholly pleasant news, one might almost think," said Wogan, in someperplexity."Never was better news," exclaimed the Cardinal, hastily,--a trifle toohastily, it seemed to Wogan. "But it surprises one. Even the King didnot expect this most desirable issue. For the King's in Spain. It isthat which troubles me. Her Highness comes to Bologna, and the King's inSpain.""Yes," said Wogan, with a wary eye upon his Eminence. "Why is the Kingin Spain?""There is pressing business in Spain,--an expedition from Cadiz. TheKing's presence there was urged most earnestly. He had no hope you wouldsucceed. I myself have some share in the blame. I did not hide from youmy thought, Mr. Wogan."Wogan was not all reassured. He could not but remember that the excusefor the King's absence which the Cardinal now made to him was preciselythat which he himself had invented to appease Clementina at Innspruck.It was the simple, natural excuse which came first of all to thetongue's tip, but--but it did not satisfy. There was, besides, too muchflurry and agitation in the Cardinal's manner. Even now that he wastaking snuff, he spilled the most of it from the trembling of hisfingers. Moreover, he must give reason upon reason for his perturbationthe while he let his supper get cold."Her Highness I cannot but feel will have reason to think slightly ofour welcome. A young girl, she will expect, and rightly, something moreof ceremony as her due.""Your Eminence does not know her," interrupted Wogan, with somesharpness. His Eminence was adroit enough to seize the occasion ofending a conversation which was growing with every minute moreembarrassing."I shall make haste to repair my defect," said he. "I beg you to presentmy duty to her Highness and to request her to receive me to-morrow atten. By that, I will hope to have discovered a lodging more suitable toher dignity."Wogan made his prayer for the Pope's intervention on Jenny's behalf andthen returned to the Pilgrim Inn, dashed and fallen in spirit. He hadthought that their troubles were at an end, but here was a newdifficulty at which in truth he rather feared to guess. The Chevalier'sdeparture to Spain had been a puzzle to him before; he remembered nowthat the Chevalier had agreed with reluctance to his enterprise, and hadnever been more than lukewarm in its support. That reluctance, thatlukewarmness, he had attributed to a natural habit of discouragement;but the evasiveness of Cardinal Origo seemed to propose a differentexplanation. Wogan would not guess at it."The King is to marry the Princess," said he, fiercely. "I brought herout of Innspruck to Bologna. The King must marry the Princess;" and,quite unawares, he set off running towards the inn. As he drew near toit, he heard a confused noise of shouting. He quickened his pace, andrushing out of the mouth of a side street into the square where the innstood, came suddenly to a stop. The square was filled with a great mobof people, and in face of the inn the crowd was so thick Wogan couldhave walked upon the shoulders. Many of the people carried blazingtorches, which they waved in the air, dropping the burning resin upontheir companions; others threw their hats skywards; here were boysbeating drums, and grown men blowing upon toy trumpets; and all wereshouting and cheering with a deafening enthusiasm. The news of thePrincess's arrival had spread like wildfire through the town. Wogan'sspirits rose at a bound. Here was a welcome very different from theCardinal's. Wogan rejoiced in the good sense of the citizens of Bolognawho could appreciate the great qualities of his chosen woman. Theirenthusiasm did them credit; he could have embraced them one by one.He strove to push his way towards the door, but he would hardly havepierced through that throng had not a man by the light of a torchrecognised him and bawled out his name. He was lifted shoulder high in asecond; he was passed from hand to hand over the heads of the people; hewas set tenderly down in the very doorway of the Pilgrim Inn, and hefound Clementina at the window of an unlighted room gazing unperceivedat the throng."Here's a true welcome, madam," said he, cordially, with his thoughtsaway upon that bluff of hillside where the acclamations had seemed sodistant and unreal. It is possible that they seemed of small account toClementina now, for though they rang in ears and were visible to hereyes, she sat quite unmoved by them."This is one tiny square in a little town," he continued. "But itsshouts will ring across Europe;" and she turned her head to him and saidquietly,--"The King is still in Spain, is he not?"Wogan's enthusiasm was quenched in alarm. Her voice had rung, for allits quietude, with pride. What if she guessed what he for one would notlet his wildest fancy dwell upon? Wogan repeated to himself the resolvewhich he had made, though with an alteration. "The King must marry thePrincess," he had said; now he said, "The Princess must marry the King."He began hurriedly to assure her that the King had doubted his capacityto bring the enterprise to a favourable issue, but that now he wouldwithout doubt return. Cardinal Origo would tell her more upon that headif she would be good enough to receive him at ten in the morning; andwhile Wogan was yet speaking, a torch waved, and amongst thatclose-pressed throng of faces below him in the street, one sprang to hisview with a remarkable distinctness, a face most menacing andvindictive. It was the face of Harry Whittington. Just for a second itshone out, angles and lines so clearly revealed that it was as thoughthe crowd had vanished, and that one contorted face glared alone at thewindows in a flare of hell-fire.Clementina saw the face too, for she drew back instinctively within thecurtains of the window."The man at Peri," said she, in a whisper."Your Highness will pardon me," exclaimed Wogan, and he made a movementtowards the door. Then he stopped, hesitated for a second, and cameback. He had a question to put, as difficult perhaps as ever lips had toframe."At Peri," he said in a stumbling voice, "I waked from a dream and sawthat man, bird-like and cunning, watching over the rim of the stairs. Iwas dreaming that a star out of heaven stooped towards me, that awoman's face shone out of the star's bright heart, that her lips deignedto bend downwards to my earth. And I wonder, I wonder whether thosecunning eyes had cunning enough to interpret my dream."And Clementina answered him simply,--"I think it very likely that they had so much skill;" and Wogan ran downthe stairs into the street. He forced his way through the crowd to thepoint where Whittington's face had shown, but his hesitation, hisquestion, had consumed time. Whittington had vanished. Nor did he appearagain for some while in Bologna. Wogan searched for him high and low.Here was another difficulty added to the reluctance of his King, thepride of his Queen. Whittington had a piece of dangerous knowledge, andcould not be found. Wogan said nothing openly of the man's treachery,though he kept very safely the paper in which that treachery wasconfessed. But he did not cease from his search. He was still engagedupon it when he received the summons from Cardinal Origo. He hurried tothe palace, wondering what new thing had befallen, and was at onceadmitted to the Cardinal. It was no bad thing, at all events, as Wogancould judge from the Cardinal's smiling face."Mr. Wogan," said he, "our Holy Father the Pope wishes to testify hisapprobation of your remarkable enterprise on behalf of a princess who ishis god-daughter. He bids me hand you, therefore, your patent of RomanSenator, and request you to present yourself at the Capitol in Rome onJune 15, when you will be installed with all the ancient ceremonies."Wogan thanked his Eminence dutifully, but laid the patent on the table."You hardly know what you refuse," said his Eminence. "The Holy Fatherhas no greater honour to bestow, and, believe me, he bestows itcharily.""Nay, your Eminence," said Wogan, "I do not undervalue so high adistinction. But I had three friends with me who shared every danger. Icannot accept an honour which they do not share; for indeed they riskedmore than I did. For they hold service under the King of France."The Cardinal was pleased to compliment Wogan upon his loyalty to hisfriends."They shall not be the losers," said he. "I think I may promise indeedthat each will have a step in rank, and I do not doubt that when theHoly Father hears what you have said to me, I shall have three otherpatents like to this;" and he locked Wogan's away in a drawer."And what of the King in Spain?" asked Wogan."I sent a messenger thither on the night of your coming," said theCardinal; "but it is a long journey into Spain. We must wait."To Wogan it seemed the waiting would never end. The Cardinal had founda little house set apart from the street with a great garden of lawnsand cedar-trees and laurels; and in that garden now fresh with springflowers and made private by high walls, the Princess passed her days.Wogan saw her but seldom during this time, but each occasion sent himback to his lodging in a fever of anxiety. She had grown silent, and hersilence alarmed him. She had lost the sparkling buoyancy of her spirits.Mrs. Misset, who attended her, told him that she would sit for longwhiles with a red spot burning in each cheek. Wogan feared that herpride was chafing her gentleness, that she guessed there was reluctancein the King's delay. "But she must marry the King," he still perseveredin declaring. Her hardships, her imprisonment, her perilous escape, thesnows of Innspruck,--these were known now; and if at the last the endfor which they had been endured--Wogan broke off from his reflections tohear the world laughing. The world would not think; it would laugh. "Forher own sake she must marry," he cried, as he paced about his rooms."For ours, too, for a country's sake;" and he looked northwards towardsEngland. But "for her own sake" was the reason uppermost in histhoughts.But the days passed. The three promised patents came from Rome, andCardinal Origo unlocked the drawer and joined Wogan's to them. Hepresented all four at the same time."The patents carry the titles of 'Excellency,'" said he.O'Toole beamed with delight."Sure," said he, "I will have a toga with the arms of the O'Toolesembroidered on the back, to appear in at the Capitol. It is on June 15,your Eminence. Upon my soul, I have not much time;" and he grewthoughtful."A toga will hardly take a month, even with the embroidery, which I donot greatly recommend," said the Cardinal, drily."I was not at the moment thinking of the toga," said O'Toole, gloomily."And what of the King in Spain?" asked Wogan."We must wait, my friend," said the Cardinal.In a week there was brought to Wogan one morning a letter in the King'shand. He fingered it for a little, not daring to break the seal. When hedid break it, he read a great many compliments upon his success, andafter the compliments a statement that the marriage should take place atMontefiascone as soon as the King could depart from Spain, and afterthat statement, a declaration that since her Highness's position was notmeanwhile one that suited either her dignity or the love the King hadfor her, a marriage by proxy should take place at Bologna. The Chevalieradded that he had written to Cardinal Origo to make the necessaryarrangements for the ceremony, and he appointed herewith Mr. CharlesWogan to act as his proxy, in recognition of his great services.Wogan felt a natural distaste for the part he was to take in theceremony. To stand up before the Cardinal and take Clementina's hand inhis, and speak another's marriage vows and receive hers as another'sdeputy,--there was a certain mockery in the situation for which he hadno liking. The memory of the cabin on the mountain-side was somethingtoo near. But, at all events, the King was to marry the Princess, andWogan's distaste was swallowed up in a great relief. There would be nolaughter rippling over Europe like the wind over a field of corn. Hestood by his window in the spring sunshine with a great contentment ofspirit, and then there came a loud rapping on his door.He caught his breath; he grew white with a sudden fear; you would havethought it was his heart that was knocked upon. For there was anotherside to the business. The King would marry the Princess; but how wouldthe Princess take this marriage by proxy and the King's continuedabsence? She had her pride, as he knew well. The knocking was repeated.Wogan in a voice of suspense bade his visitor enter. The visitor was oneof her Highness's new servants. "Without a doubt," thought Wogan, "shehas received a letter by the same messenger who brought me mine."The servant handed him a note from the Princess, begging him to attendon her at once. "She must marry the King," said Wogan to himself. Hetook his hat and cane, and followed the servant into the street.CHAPTER XXIIWogan was guided through the streets to the mouth of a blind alley, atthe bottom of which rose a high garden wall, and over the wall thesmoking chimneys of a house among the tops of many trees freshly green,which shivered in the breeze and shook the sunlight from their leaves.This alley, from the first day when the Princess came to lodge in thehouse, had worn to Wogan a familiar air; and this morning, as hepondered dismally whether, after all, those laborious months since hehad ridden hopefully out of Bologna to Ohlau were to bear no fruit, hechanced to remember why. He had passed that alley at the moment of greydawn, when he was starting out upon this adventure, and he had seen aman muffled in a cloak step from its mouth and suddenly draw back as hishorse's hoofs rang in the silent street, as though to elude recognition.Wogan wondered for a second who at that time had lived in the house; buthe was admitted through a door in the wall and led into a little roomwith French windows opening on a lawn. The garden seen from here was awealth of white blossoms and yellow, and amongst them Clementina pacedalone, the richest and the whitest blossom of them all. She was dressedsimply in a white gown of muslin and a little three-cornered hat ofstraw; but Wogan knew as he advanced towards her that it was not merelythe hat which threw the dark shadow on her face.She took a step or two towards him and began at once without anyfriendly greeting in a cold, formal voice,--"You have received a letter this morning from his Majesty?""Yes, your Highness.""Why does the King linger in Spain?""The expedition from Cadiz--""Which left harbour a week ago. Well, Mr. Wogan," she asked in bitingtones, "how does that expedition now on the high seas detain his Majestyin Spain?"Wogan was utterly dumfounded. He stood and gazed at her, a great troublein his eyes, and his wits with that expedition all at sea."Is your Highness sure?" he babbled."Oh, indeed, most sure," she replied with the hardest laugh which he hadever heard from a woman's lips."I did not know," he said in dejection, and she took a step nearer tohim, and her cheeks flamed."Is that the truth?" she asked, her voice trembling with anger. "You didnot know?"And Wogan understood that the real trouble with her at this moment wasnot so much the King's delay in Spain as a doubt whether he himself hadplayed with her and spoken her false. For if he was proved untrue here,why, he might have been untrue throughout, on the stairway at Innspruck,on the road to Ala, in the hut on the bluff of the hills. He could seehow harshly the doubt would buffet her pride, how it would wound her tothe soul."It is the truth," he answered; "you will believe it. I pledge my soulupon it. Lay your hand in mine. I will repeat it standing so. Could Ispeak false with your hand close in mine?"He held out his hand; she did not move, nor did her attitude of distrustrelent."Could you not?" she asked icily.Wogan was baffled; he was angered. "Have I ever told you lies?" he askedpassionately, and she answered, "Yes," and steadily looked him in theface.The monosyllable quenched him like a pail of cold water. He stoodsilent, perplexed, trying to remember."When?" he asked."In the berlin between Brixen and Wellishmile."Wogan remembered that he had told her of his city of dreams. But it wasplainly not to that that she referred. He shrugged his shoulders."I cannot remember.""You told me of an attack made upon a Scottish town, what time the Kingwas there in the year '15. He forced a passage through nine grenadierswith loaded muskets and escaped over the roof-tops, where he played agame of hide-and-seek among the chimneys. Ah, you remember the storynow. There was a chain, I remember, which even then as you told of itpuzzled me. He threw the chain over the head of one of those ninegrenadiers, and crossing his arms jerked it tight about the man's neck,stifling his cry of warning. 'What chain?' I asked, and youanswered,--oh, sir, with a practised readiness,--'The chain he woreabout his neck.' Do you remember that? The chain linked your hand-locks,Mr. Wogan. It was your own escape of which you told me. Why did youascribe your exploits to your King?""Your Highness," he said, "we know the King, we who have served him dayin and day out for years. We can say freely to each other, 'The King'sachievements, they are to come.' We were in Scotland with him, and weknow they will not fail to come. But with you it's different. You didnot know him. You asked what he had done, and I told you. You asked formore. You said, 'Amongst his throng of adventurers, each of whom hassomething to his credit, what has he, the chief adventurer?'""Well, sir, why not the truth in answer to the question?""Because the truth's unfair to him.""And was the untruth fair to me?"Mr. Wogan was silent."I think I understand," she continued bitterly; "you thought, here's afoolish girl, aflame for knights and monsters overthrown. She cries fordeeds, not statecraft. Well, out of your many, you would toss her one,and call it the King's. You could afford the loss, and she, please God,would be content with it." She spoke with an extraordinary violence in alow, trembling voice, and she would not listen to Wogan's stammeredinterruption."Very likely, too, the rest of your words to me was of a piece. I was agirl, and girls are to have gallant speeches given to them like so manylollipops. Oh, but you have hurt me beyond words. I would not havethought I could have suffered so much pain!"That last cry wrung Wogan's heart. She turned away from him with thetears brimming in her eyes. It was this conjecture of hers which he haddreaded, which at all costs he must dispel."Do not believe it!" he exclaimed. "Think! Should I have been at so muchpains to refrain from speech, if speech was what I had intended?""How should I know but what that concealment was part of the gallantry,a necessary preface to the pretty speeches?""Should I have urged your rescue on the King had I believed you what youwill have it that I did,--a mere witless girl to be pampered withfollies?""Then you admit," she cried, "you _urged_ the King.""Should I have travelled over Europe to search for a wife and lit onyou? Should I have ridden to Ohlau and pestered your father till heyielded? Should I have ridden across Europe to Strasbourg? Should I haveendangered my friends in the rush to Innspruck? No, no, no! From firstto last you were the chosen woman."The vehemence and fire of sincerity with which he spoke had its effecton her. She turned again towards him with a gleam of hopefulness in herface, but midway in the turn she stopped."You spoke to me words which I have not forgotten," she said doubtfully."You said the King had need of me. I will be frank, hoping that you willmatch my frankness. On that morning when we climbed down the gorge, andever since I cheered myself with that one thought. The King had need ofme.""Never was truer word spoken," said Wogan, stoutly."Then why is the King in Spain?"They had come back to the first question. Wogan had no new answer to it.He said,--"I do not know."For a moment or two Clementina searched his eyes. It seemed in the endthat she was satisfied he spoke the truth. For she said in a voice ofgreater gentleness,--"Then I will acquaint you. Will you walk with me for half a mile?"Wogan bowed, and followed her out of the garden. He could not thinkwhither she was leading him, or for what purpose. She walked without aword to him, he followed without a question, and so pacing with muchdignity they came to the steps of a great house. Then Clementina halted."Sir," said she, "can you put a name to the house?""Upon my word, your Highness, I cannot.""It is the Caprara Palace," said she, suddenly, and suddenly she benther eyes upon Wogan. The name, however, conveyed no meaning whatever tohim, and his blank face told her so clearly. She nodded in a sort ofapproval. "No," she said, relenting, "you did not know."She mounted the steps, and knocking upon the door was admitted by an oldbroken serving-man, who told her that the Princess Caprara was away. Itwas permitted him, however, to show the many curiosities and treasuresof the palace to such visitors as desired it. Clementina did desire it.The old man led her and her companion to the armoury, where he was forspending much time and breath over the trophies which the distinguishedGeneral Caprara had of old rapt from the infidels. But Clementinaquickly broke in upon his garrulity."I have a great wish to see the picture gallery," said she, and the oldman tottered onwards through many shrouded and darkened rooms. In thepicture gallery he drew up the blinds and then took a wand in his hand."Will you show me first the portrait of Mlle. de Caprara?" saidClementina.It was a full-length portrait painted with remarkable skill. MariaVittoria de Caprara was represented in a black dress, and the warmItalian colouring of her face made a sort of glow in the dark picture.Her eyes watched you from the canvas with so life-like a glance you hada thought when you turned that they turned after you. Clementina gazedat the picture for a long while, and the blood slowly mounted on herneck and transfused her cheeks."There is a face, Mr. Wogan,--a passionate, beautiful face,--which mightwell set a seal upon a man's heart. I do not wonder. I can well believethat though to-day that face gladdens the streets of Rome, a lover inSpain might see it through all the thick earth of the Pyrenees. There,sir, I promised to acquaint you why the King lingered in Spain. I havefulfilled that promise;" and making a present to the custodian, shewalked back through the rooms and down the steps to the street. Woganfollowed her, and pacing with much dignity they walked back to thelittle house among the trees, and so came again into the garden ofblossoms.The anger had now gone from her face, but it was replaced by a greatweariness."It is strange, is it not," she said with a faltering smile, "that on aspring morning, beneath this sky, amongst these flowers, I should thinkwith envy of the snows of Innspruck and my prison there? But I owe you areparation," she added. "You said the King had need of me. For thatsaying of yours I find an apt simile. Call it a stone on which you bademe set my foot and step. I stepped, and found that your stone wasstraw.""No, madam," cried Wogan."I had a thought," she continued, "you knew the stone was straw whenyou commended it to me as stone. But this morning I have learned myerror. I acquit you, and ask your pardon. You did not know that the Kinghad no need of me." And she bowed to him as though the conversation wasat an end. Wogan, however, would not let her go. He placed himself infront of her, engrossed in his one thought, "She must marry the King."He spoke, however, none the less with sincerity when he cried,--"Nor do I know now--no, and I shall not know.""You have walked with me to the Caprara Palace this morning. Or did Idream we walked?""What your Highness has shown me to-day I cannot gainsay. For this isthe first time that ever I heard of Mlle. de Caprara. But I am very surethat you draw your inference amiss. You sit in judgment on the King, notknowing him. You push aside the firm trust of us who know him as a thingof no account. And because once, in a mood of remorse at my ownpresumption, I ascribed one trivial exploit--at the best a success ofmuscle and not brain--to the King which was not his, you strip him ofall merit on the instant." He saw that her face flushed. Here, at allevents, he had hit the mark, and he cried out with a ringingconfidence,--"Your stone is stone, not straw.""Prove it me," said she."What do you know of the Princess Caprara at the end of it all? Youhave told me this morning all you know. I will go bail if the wholetruth were out the matter would take a very different complexion."Again she said,--"Prove that to me!" and then she looked over his shoulder. Wogan turnedand saw that a servant was coming from the house across the lawn with aletter on a salver. The Princess opened the letter and read it. Then sheturned again to Wogan."His Eminence the Cardinal fixes the marriage in Bologna here for to-dayfortnight. You have thus two weeks wherein to make your word good."Two weeks, and Wogan had not an idea in his head as to how he was to setabout the business. But he bowed imperturbably."Within two weeks I will convince your Highness," said he, and for agood half-hour he sauntered with her about the garden before he took hisleave.CHAPTER XXIIIBut his thoughts had been busy during that half-hour, and as soon as hehad come out from the mouth of the alley, he ran to Gaydon's lodging.Gaydon, however, was not in. O'Toole lodged in the same house, and Woganmounted to his apartments, hoping there to find news of Gaydon'swhereabouts. But O'Toole was taking the air, too, but Wogan foundO'Toole's servant."Where will I find Captain O'Toole?" asked Wogan."You will find his Excellency," said the servant, with a reproachfulemphasis upon the title, "at the little bookseller's in the Piazza."Wogan sprang down the stairs and hurried to the Piazza, wondering whatin the world O'Toole was doing at a bookseller's. O'Toole was bendingover the counter, which was spread with open books, and Wogan hailed himfrom the doorway. O'Toole turned and blushed a deep crimson. He came tothe door as if to prevent Wogan's entrance into the shop. Wogan,however, had but one thought in his head."Where shall I find Gaydon?" he asked."He went towards the Via San Vitale," replied O'Toole.Wogan set off again, and in an hour came upon Gaydon. He had lost anhour of his fortnight; with the half-hour during which he had saunteredin the garden, an hour and a half."You went to Rome in the spring," said he. "There you saw the King. Didyou see anyone else by any chance whilst you were in Rome?""Edgar," replied Gaydon, with a glance from the tail of his eye whichWogan did not fail to remark."Aha!" said he. "Edgar, to be sure, since you saw the King. But besidesEdgar, did you see anyone else?""Whittington," said Gaydon."Oho!" said Wogan, thoughtfully. "So you saw my friend Harry Whittingtonat Rome. Did you see him with the King?"Gaydon was becoming manifestly uncomfortable."He was waiting for the King," he replied."Indeed. And whereabouts was he waiting for the King?""Oh, outside a house in Rome," said Gaydon, as though he barelyremembered the incident. "It was no business of mine, that I could see.""None whatever, to be sure," answered Wogan, cordially. "But why in theworld should Whittington be waiting for the King outside a house inRome?""It was night-time. He carried a lantern.""Of course, if it was night-time," exclaimed Wogan, in his mostunsuspicious accent, "and the King wished to pay a visit to a house inRome, he would take an attendant with a lantern. A servant, though, onewould have thought, unless, of course, it was a private sort of visit--""It was no business of mine," Gaydon interrupted; "and so I made noinquiries of Whittington.""But Whittington did not wait for inquiries, eh?" said Wogan, shrewdly."You are hiding something from me, my friend,--something which that goodhonest simpleton of a Whittington blurted out to you without the leastthought of making any disclosure. Oh, I know my Whittington. And I knowyou, too, Dick. I do not blame you. For when the King goes a-visitingthe Princess Caprara privately at night-time while the girl to whom heis betrothed suffers in prison for her courageous loyalty to him, andhis best friends are risking their heads to set her free, why, there'sknowledge a man would be glad to keep even out of his own hearing. Soyou see I know more than you credit me with. So tell me the rest! Don'tfob me off. Don't plead it is none of your business, for, upon my soul,it is." Gaydon suddenly changed his manner. He spoke with no lessearnestness than Wogan,--"You are in the right. It is my business, and why? Because it touchesyou, Charles Wogan, and you are my friend.""Therefore you will tell me," cried Wogan."Therefore I will not tell you," answered Gaydon. He had a very keenrecollection of certain pages of poetry he had seen on the table atSchlestadt, of certain conversations in the berlin when he had feignedto sleep.Wogan caught him by the arm."I must know. Here have I lost two hours out of one poor fortnight. Imust know.""Why?"Gaydon stood quite unmoved, and with a remarkable sternness ofexpression. Wogan understood that only the truth would unlock his lips,and he cried,--"Because unless I do, in a fortnight her Highness will refuse to marrythe King." And he recounted to him the walk he had taken and theconversation he had held with Clementina that morning. Gaydon listenedwith an unfeigned surprise. The story put Wogan in quite a differentlight, and moreover it was told with so much sincerity of voice and soclear a simplicity of language, Gaydon could not doubt one syllable."I am afraid, my friend," said he, "my thoughts have done you somewrong--""Leave me out of them," cried Wogan, impatiently. He had no notion andno desire to hear what Gaydon meant. "Tell me from first to last whatyou saw in Rome."Gaydon told him thereupon of that secret passage from the Chevalier'shouse into the back street, and of that promenade to the Princess'shouse which he had spied upon. Wogan listened without any remark, andyet without any attempt to quicken his informant. But as soon as he hadthe story, he set off at a run towards the Cardinal's palace. "So thePrincess," he thought, "had more than a rumour to go upon, though howshe came by her knowledge the devil only knows." At the palace he wastold that the Cardinal was gone to the Archiginnasio."I will wait," said Wogan; and he waited in the library for anhour,--another priceless hour of that swiftly passing fortnight, and hewas not a whit nearer to his end! He made it his business, however, toshow a composed face to his Eminence, and since his Eminence's dinnerwas ready, to make a pretence of sharing the meal. The Cardinal was in amood of great contentment."It is your presence, Mr. Wogan, puts me in a good humour," he waspleased to say."Or a certain letter your Eminence received from Spain to-day?" askedWogan."True, the letter was one to cause all the King's friends satisfaction.""And some few of them, perhaps, relief," said Wogan.The Cardinal glanced at Wogan, but with a quite impassive countenance.He took a pinch of snuff and inhaled it delicately. Then he glanced atWogan again."I have a hope, Mr. Wogan," said he, with a great cordiality. "You shalltell me if it is to fall. I see much of you of late, and I have a hopethat you are thinking of the priesthood. We should welcome you verygladly, you may be sure. Who knows but what there is a Cardinal's hathung up in the anteroom of the future for you to take down from itspeg?"The suggestion was sufficiently startling to Wogan, who had thought ofnothing less than of entering into orders. But he was not to be divertedby this piece of ingenuity."Your Eminence," said he, "although I hold myself unworthy of priestlyvows, I am here in truth in the character of a catechist.""Catechise, then, my friend," said the Cardinal, with a smile."First, then, I would ask your Eminence how many of the King's followershave had the honour of being presented to the Princess Clementina?""Very few.""Might I know the names?""To be sure."Cardinal Origo repeated three or four names. They were the names of menknown to Wogan for irreproachable loyalty. Not one of them would havegone about the Princess with slanders upon his master; he would havegone bail for them all,--at least, a month ago he would, he reflected,though now indeed he hardly knew where to put his trust."Her Highness lives, as you know, a very suitable, secluded life,"continued Origo."But might not others have had access to her at the Pilgrim Inn?""Nay, she was there but the one night,--the night of her arrival. I donot think it likely. For if you remember, I myself went to her early thenext morning, and by a stroke of good luck I had already come upon thelittle house in the garden which was offered to me by a friend of yoursfor her Highness's service.""On the evening of our arrival? A friend of mine offered you the house,"said Wogan, puzzling over who that friend could be."Yes. Harry Whittington."Wogan started to his feet. So, after all, Whittington was at the bottomof the trouble. Wogan wondered whether he had done wisely not to publishthe fellow's treachery. But he could not,--no, he had to make hisaccount with the man alone. There were reasons."It was Harry Whittington who offered the house for her Highness's use?"Wogan exclaimed."It was an offer most apt and kind.""And made on the evening of our arrival?""Not an hour after you left me. But you are surprised?"Wogan was reflecting that on the evening of his arrival, and indeed justbefore Whittington made his offer to Origo, he had seen Whittington'sface by the torchlight in the square. That face lived very plainly inWogan's thoughts. It was certainly not for Clementina's service thatWhittington had offered the house. Wogan resumed his seat, sayingcarelessly,--"I was surprised, for I had a notion that Whittington lodged oppositethe Torre Garisenda, and not at the house.""Nor did he. He hired it for a friend who has now left Bologna.""Man or woman?" asked Wogan, remembering that visitor who had drawn backinto the alley one early morning of last autumn. The man might verylikely have been Whittington."I did not trouble to inquire," said the Cardinal. "But, Mr. Wogan, whydo you ask me these questions?""I have not come yet to the end of them," answered Wogan. "There is onemore.""Ask it!" said his Eminence, crossing his legs."Will your Eminence oblige me with a history of the affection of MariaVittoria, Mlle. de Caprara, for the King?"The Cardinal uncrossed his legs and bounced in his chair."Here is a question indeed!" he stuttered."And a history of the King's response to it," continued Wogan,implacably, "with a particular account of why the King lingers in Spainafter the Cadiz expedition has put out to sea."Origo was now quite still. His face was pale, and he had lost in aninstant that air of affectation which so contrasted with his broadfeatures."This is very dangerous talk," said he, solemnly."Not so dangerous as silence.""Some foolish slanderer has been busy at your ears.""Not at my ears," returned Wogan.The Cardinal took his meaning. "Is it so, indeed?" said he,thoughtfully, once or twice. Then he reached out his hand towards anescritoire. "But here's the King's letter come this morning.""It is not enough," said Wogan, "for the King lingers in Spain, and theportrait of Maria Vittoria glows on the walls of the Caprara Palace,whither I was bidden to escort her Highness this morning."The Cardinal walked thoughtfully to and fro about the room, but made uphis mind in the end."I will tell you the truth of the matter, Mr. Wogan. The King saw Mlle.de Caprara for the first time while you were searching Europe for a wifefor him. He saw her here one morning at Mass in the Church of theCrucifixion, and came away most silent. Of their acquaintance I need notspeak. The King just for one month became an ardent youth. He appealedto the Pope for his consent to marry Mlle. de Caprara, and the Popeconsented. The King was just sending off a message to bid you cease yoursearch when you came back with the news that her Highness the PrincessClementina had accepted the King's hand and would shortly set out forBologna. Sir, the King was in despair, though he showed to you asmiling, grateful face. Mlle. de Caprara went to Rome; the King stayedhere awaiting his betrothed. There came the news of her imprisonment.The King, after all, is a man. If his heart leaped a little at the news,who shall blame him? Do you remember how you came privately one nightto the King's cabinet and found me there in the King's company?""But," stammered Wogan, "I do remember that evening. I remember that theKing was pale, discouraged--""And why?" said Origo. "Because her Highness's journey had beeninterrupted, because the marriage now seemed impossible? No, but becauseMr. Charles Wogan was back in Bologna, because Mr. Charles Wogan hadsought for a private interview, because the King had no more doubt thanI as to what Mr. Charles Wogan intended to propose, and because the Kingknew that what Mr. Wogan set his hand to was as good as done. Youremember I threw such hindrances as I could in your way, and made muchof the risks you must run, and the impossibility of your task. Now youknow why."Never was a man more confused than Wogan at this story of theCardinal's. "It makes me out a mere meddlesome fool," he cried, and satstunned."It is an unprofitable question at this time of day," said the Cardinal,with a smile. "Matters have gone so far that they can no longer beremedied. This marriage must take place.""True," said Wogan."The King, indeed, is firmly inclined to it.""Yet he lingers in Spain.""That I cannot explain to you, but he has been most loyal. That you musttake my word for, so must your Princess.""Yet this winter when I was at Schlestadt preparing the expedition toInnspruck," Wogan said with a certain timidity, for he no longer feltthat it was within his right to make reproaches, "the King was in Romevisiting Mlle. de Caprara."The Cardinal flushed with some anger at Wogan's persistence."Come, sir," said he, "what has soured you with suspicions? Upon myword, here is a man sitting with me who bears your name, but few ofthose good qualities the name is linked with in my memories. Your Kingsaw Mlle. de Caprara once in Rome, once only. Major Gaydon had come atyour request to Rome to fetch a letter in the King's hand, bidding herHighness entrust herself to you. Up to that moment the issue of yourexploit was in the balance. But your request was to the King a verycertain sign that you would indeed succeed. So the night before he wrotethe letter he went to the Caprara Palace and took his farewell of thewoman he loved. So much may be pardoned to any man, even by you, who, itseems, stand pinnacled above these earthly affections."The blood rushed into Wogan's face at the sneer, but he bowed his headto it, being much humbled by Origo's disclosures."This story I have told you," continued the Cardinal, "I will make boldto tell to-morrow to her Highness.""But you must also explain why the King lingers in Spain," Woganobjected. "I am very certain of it. The Princess has her pride; shewill not marry a reluctant man.""Well, that I cannot do," cried the Cardinal, now fairly exasperated."Pride! She has her pride! Is it to ruin a cause, this pride of hers? Isit to wreck a policy?""No," cried Wogan, starting up. "I have a fortnight. I beg your Eminencenot to speak one word to her Highness until this fortnight is gone,until the eve of the marriage in Bologna. Give me till then. I have ahope there will be no need for us to speak at all."The Cardinal shrugged his shoulders."You must do more than hope. Will you pledge your word to it?"Here it seemed to Wogan was an occasion when a man must dare."Yes," he said, and so went out of the house. He had spoken under asudden inspiration; the Cardinal's words had shown him a way which withcareful treading might lead to his desired result. He went first to hislodging, and ordered his servant Marnier to saddle his black horse. Thenhe hurried again to O'Toole's lodging, and found his friend back fromthe bookseller's indeed, but breathing very hard of a book which he slidbehind his back."I am to go on a journey," said Wogan, "and there's a delicate sort ofwork I would trust to you."O'Toole looked distantly at Wogan."_Opus_," said he, in a far-away voice."I want you to keep an eye on the little house in the garden--"O'Toole nodded. "_Hortus, hortus, hortum_," said he, "_horti--hortus_,"and he fingered the book at his back, "no, _horti, horto, horto_. Do youknow, my friend, that the difference between the second and fourthdeclensions was solely invented by the grammarians for their own profit.It is of no manner of use, and the most plaguy business that ever Iheard of.""O'Toole," cried Wogan, with a bang of his fist, "you are no morelistening to me than this table."At once O'Toole's face brightened, and with a shout of pride he reeledout, "_Mensa, mensa, mensam, mensae, mensae, mensa_." Wogan sprang up ina rage."Don't _mensa, mensam_ me when I am talking most seriously to you! Whatis it you are after? What's that book you are hiding? Let me look atit!" O'Toole blushed on every visible inch of him and handed the book toWogan."It's a Latin grammar, my friend," said he, meekly."And what in the world do you want to be addling your brains with aLatin grammar for, when there's other need for your eyes?""Aren't we to be enrolled at the Capitol in June as Roman Senators withall the ancient honours, _cum titubis_--it is so--_cum titubis_, whichare psalters or pshawms?""Well, what then?""You don't understand, Charles, the difficulty of my position. You haveLatin at your finger-ends. Sure, I have often admired you for yourextraordinary comprehension of Latin, but never more than I do now. Itwill be no trouble in the world for you to trip off a neat littlespeech, thanking the Senators kindly for the great honour they are doingthemselves in electing us into their noble body. But it will not be easyfor me," said O'Toole, with a sigh. "How can I get enough Latin throughmy skull by June not to disgrace myself?" He looked so utterly miserableand distressed that Wogan never felt less inclined to laugh. "I sit upat nights with a lamp, but the most unaccountable thing happens. I maycome in here as lively as any cricket, but the moment I take this bookin my hands I am overpowered with sleep--""Oh, listen to me," cried Wogan. "I have only a fortnight--""And I have only till June," sighed O'Toole. "But there! I am listening.I have no doubt, my friend, your business is more important than mine,"he said with the simplicity of which not one of his friends could resistthe appeal. Wogan could not now."My business," he said, "is only more important because you have no needof your Latin grammar at all. There's a special deputy, a learnedprofessor, appointed on these occasions to make a speech for us, and allwe have to do is to sit still and nod our heads wisely when he lookstowards us.""Is that all?" cried O'Toole, jumping up. "Swear it!""I do," said Wogan; and "Here's to the devil with the Latin grammar!"exclaimed O'Toole. He flung open his window and hurled the book outacross the street with the full force of his prodigious arm. Therefollowed a crash and then the tinkle of falling glass. O'Toole beamedcontentedly and shut the window."Now what will I do for you in return for this?" he asked."Keep a watch on the little house and the garden. I will tell you whywhen I return. Observe who goes in to visit the Princess, but hinder noone. Only remember who they are and let me know." And Wogan got back tohis lodging and mounted his black horse. He could trust O'Toole to playwatchdog in his absence. If the mysterious visitor who had bestowed uponClementina with so liberal a hand so much innuendo and such an artfulcombination of truth and falsity, were to come again to the little houseto confirm the slanders, Wogan in the end would not fail to discover thevisitor's identity.He dismissed the matter from his mind and rode out from Bologna. Fourdays afterwards he presented himself at the door of the Caprara Palace.CHAPTER XXIVMaria Vittoria received the name of her visitor with a profoundastonishment. Then she stamped her foot and said violently, "Send himaway! I hate him." But curiosity got the better of her hate. She felt astrong desire to see the meddlesome man who had thrust himself betweenher and her lover; and before her woman had got so far as the door, shesaid, "Let him up to me!" She was again surprised when Wogan wasadmitted, for she expected a stout and burly soldier, stupid andconfident, of the type which blunders into success through sheerignorance of the probabilities of defeat. Mr. Wogan, for his part, sawthe glowing original of the picture at Bologna, but armed at all pointswith hostility."Your business," said she, curtly. Wogan no less curtly replied that hehad a wish to escort 