dient to the behests of him who held their reins, hequickly checked the heir of Asmaka. Staying before him, the handsome sonof Asmaka, endued with great might, pierced him with ten shafts andaddressing him, said, "Wait, Wait." Abhimanyu then, with ten shafts, cutoff the former's steeds and charioteer and standard and two arms and bowand head, and caused them to fall down on the earth, smiling the while.After the heroic ruler of the Asmakas had thus been slain by the son ofSubhadra, the whole of his force wavered and began to fly away from thefield. Then Karna and Kripa, and Drona and Drona's son, and the ruler ofthe Gandharas, and Sala and Salya, and Bhurisravas and Kratha, andSomadatta, and Vivinsati, and Vrishasena, and Sushena, and Kundavedhin,and Pratardana, and Vrindaraka and Lalithya, and Pravahu, andDrighalochana, and angry Duryodhana, showered their arrows upon him. ThenAbhimanyu, excessively pierced by those great bowmen with their straightshafts, shot shafts at Karna which was capable of piercing through everyarmour and body. That shaft, piercing through Karna's coat of mail andthen his body, entered the earth like a snake piercing through ananthill. Deeply pierced, Karna felt great pain and became perfectlyhelpless. Indeed, Karna began to tremble in that battle like a hillduring an earthquake. Then with three other shafts of great sharpness,the mighty son of Arjuna, excited with rage, slew those three warriors,viz., Sushena, Drighalochana, and Kundavedhin. Meanwhile, Karna(recovering from the shock) pierced Abhimanyu with five and twentyshafts. And Aswatthaman struck him with twenty, and Kritavarman withseven. Covered all over with arrows, that son of Sakra's son, filled withrage, careered over the field. And he was regarded by all the troops asYama's self armed with the noose. He then scattered over Salya, whohappened to be near him thick showers of arrows. That mighty-armedwarrior then uttered loud shouts, frightening thy troops therewith.Meanwhile, Salya, pierced by Abhimanyu accomplished in weapons, withstraight shafts penetrating into his very vitals, sat down on the terraceof his car and fainted away. Beholding Salya thus pierced by thecelebrated son of Subhadra, all the troops fled away in tof thhe very sight ofBharadwaja's son. Seeing that mighty-armed warrior, viz., Salya, thuscovered with shafts of golden wings, thy army fled away like a herd ofdeer attacked by a lion. And Abhimanyu glorified by the Pitris, the gods,and Charanas, and Siddhas, as also by diverse classes of creatures on theearth, with praises about (his heroism and skill in) battle, lookedresplendent like a sacrificial fire fed with clarified butter.'"SECTION XXXVI"Dhritarashtra said, 'While Arjuna's son was thus grinding, by means ofhis straight arrows, our foremost bowmen, what warriors of my armyendeavoured to check him?'"Sanjaya said, 'Hear, O king, of the splendid prowess in battle ofyouthful Abhimanyu while engaged in breaking the car-ranks (of theKauravas), protected by the son of Bharadwaja himself.'"'Beholding the ruler of the Madras disabled in battle by Subhadra's sonwith his shafts, the younger brother of Salya, filled with wrath,advanced against Abhimanyu, scattering his shafts. Arjuna's son however,endued with great lightness of hand, cut off his antagonist's head andcharioteer, his triple bamboo-pole, his bed (on the car), his car-wheels,his yoke, and shafts and quiver, and car-bottom, by means of his arrows,as also his banner and every other implements of battle with which hiscar was equipped. So quick were his movements that none could obtain asight of his person. Deprived of life, that foremost and chief of allornaments of battle fell down on the earth, like a huge hill uprooted bya mighty tempest. His followers then, struck with fear, fled away in alldirections. Beholding that feat of the son of Arjuna, all creatures werehighly gratified, and cheered him, O Bharata, with loud shouts of"Excellent, Excellent!""'After Salya's brother had thus been slain, many followers of his, loudlyproclaiming their families, places of residence, and names, rushedagainst Arjuna's son, filled with rage and armed with diverse weapons.Some of them were on cars, some on steeds and some on elephants; andothers advanced on foot. And all of them were endued with fierce might.And they rushed frightening the son of Arjuna with the loud whiz of theirarrows, the deep roar of their car-wheels, their fierce whoops and shoutsand cries, their leonine roars, the loud twang of their bow-string, andthe slaps of their palms. And they said, "Thou shalt not escape us withlife today!" Hearing them say so, the son of Subhadra, smiling the while,pierced with his shafts those amongst them that had pierced him first.Displaying diverse weapons of beautiful look and of great celerity, theheroic son of Arjuna battled mildly with them. Those weapons that he hadreceived from Vasudeva and those that he had received from Dhananjaya,Abhimanyu displayed in the very same way as Vasudeva and Dhananjaya.Disregarding the heavy burthen he had taken upon himself and casting offall fear, he repeatedly shot his arrows. No interval, again, could benoticed between his aiming and letting off an arrow. Only his tremblingbow drawn to a circle could be seen on every side, looking like theblazing disc of the autumnal sun. And the twang of his bow, and the slapof his palms, O Bharata, were heard to resound like the roaring of cloudscharged with thunder. Modest, wrathful, reverential to superiors, andexceedingly handsome, the son of Subhadra, out of regard for the hostileheroes, fought with them mildly. Commencing gently, O king, he graduallybecame fierce, like the illustrious maker of the day when autumn comesafter the season of the rains is over. Like the Sun himself shedding hisrays, Abhimanyu, filled with wrath, shot hundreds and thousands ofwhetted arrows, furnished with golden wings. In the very sight ofBharadwaja's son, that celebrated warrior covered the car-division of theKaurava army with diverse kinds of arrows.[66] Thereupon, that army thusafflicted by Abhimanyu with his shafts, turned its back on the field.'"SECTION XXXVII"Dhritarashtra said, 'My heart, O Sanjaya, is agitated with differentemotions, viz., shame and gratification, upon hearing that Subhadra's sonsingly held in check the whole army of my son. O son of Gavalgana, tell meeverything once more in detail about the encounter of youthful Abhimanyu,which seems to have been pretty like Skanda's encounter with the Asurahost.'"Sanjaya said, 'I will relate to thee that fearful encounter, that fiercebattle, as it took place between one and the many. Mounted upon his car,Abhimanyu, with great daring, showered his arrows on the warriors of thyarmy mounted on their cars, all of whom were chastisers of foes, enduedwith great courage. Careering with great speed like a circle of fire, hepierced Drona and Karna, and Kripa, and Salya and Drona's son, andKritavarman of the Bhoja race, and Vrihadvala, and Duryodhana, andSomadatta, and mighty Sakuni, and diverse kings and diverse princes anddiverse bodies of troops. While engaged in slaying his foes by means ofsuperior weapons, the valiant son of Subhadra, endued with mighty energy,seemed, O Bharata, to be present everywhere. Beholding that conduct ofSubhadra's son of immeasurable energy, thy troops trembled repeatedly.Seeing that warrior of great proficiency in battle, Bharadwaja's son ofgreat wisdom, with eyes expanded in joy, quickly came towards Kripa, andaddressing him said, as if crushing (by that speech of his) the veryvitals of thy son, O Bharata, the following words, "Yonder cometh theyouthful son of Subhadra at the head of the Parthas, delighting all hisfriends, and king Yudhishthira, and Nakula, and Sahadeva, and Bhimasena,the son of Pandu, and all his kinsmen, and relatives by marriage, and allwho are watching the battle as spectators without taking any part in it.I do not regard any bowman to be his equal in battle. If only heentertains the wish, he can slay this vast host. It seems, that for somereason or other, he doth not entertain that wish." Hearing these words ofDrona, so expressive of the gratification he felt, thy son, enraged withAbhimanyu, looked at Drona, faintly smiling the while. Indeed, Duryodhanasaid unto Karna and king Valhika and Duhsasana and the ruler of theMadras and the many other mighty car-warriors of his army, these words,"The preceptor of the entire order of the Kshatriyas,--he that is theforemost of all conversant with Brahma, doth not, from stupefaction, wishto slay this son of Arjuna. None can, in battle, escape the preceptorwith life, not even the Destroyer himself, if the latter advancethagainst the preceptor as a foe. What, O friend, shall we say then of anymortal? I say this truly. This one is the son of Arjuna, and Arjuna isthe preceptor's disciple. It is for this that the preceptor protecteththis youth. Disciples and sons and their sons are always dear to thevirtuous people. Protected by Drona, the youthful son of Arjuna regardethhimself valourous. He is only a fool entertaining a high opinion ofhimself. Crush him, therefore, without delay." Thus addressed by the Kuruking, those warriors, O monarch, excited with rage and desirous ofslaying their foe, rushed, in the very sight of Drona at the son ofSubhadra that daughter of the Satwata race. Duhsasana, in particular,that tiger among the Kurus, hearing those words of Duryodhana, answeredthe latter, saying, "O monarch, I tell thee that even I will slay thisone in the very sight of the Pandavas and before the eyes of thePanchalas. I shall certainly devour the son of Subhadra today, like Rahuswallowing Surya (sun)." And once more addressing the Kuru king loudly,Duhsasana said, "Hearing that Subhadra's son hath been slain by me, thetwo Krishnas, who are exceedingly vain, will without doubt, go to theregion of the departed spirits, leaving this world of men. Hearing thenof the death of the two Krishnas, it is evident that the other sons bornof Pandu's wives, with all their friends, will, in course of a singleday, cast away their lives from despair. It is evident, therefore, thatthis one foe of thine being slain, all thy foes will be slain. Wish mewell, O king, even I will slay this foe of thine." Having said thesewords, O king, thy son Duhsasana, filled with rage and uttering a loudroar, rushed against the son of Subhadra and covered him with showers ofarrows. Abhimanyu then, O chastiser of foes, received that son of thinethus advancing upon him wrathfully, with six and twenty arrows of sharppoints. Duhsasana, however, filled with rage, and looking like aninfuriated elephant, fought desperately with Abhimanyu, the son ofSubhadra in that battle. Both of them masters in car-fight, they foughton describing beautiful circles with their cars, one of them to the leftand other to the right. The warriors then, with their Panavas andMridangas and Dundubhis and Krakachas and great Anakas and Bheris andJharjaras, caused a deafening noise mingled with leonine roars, such asarise from the great receptacle of salt waters!'"SECTION XXXVIII"Sanjaya said, 'Then the intelligent Abhimanyu, with limbs mangled witharrows, smilingly addressed his foe, Duhsasana, stationed before himsaying, "By good luck it is that I behold in battle that vain heroarrived before me, who is cruel, who hath cast away all righteousness,and who brawleth out lustily his own praises. In the assembly (for theKurus) and in the hearing of king Dhritarashtra, thou hadst, with thyharsh speeches, angered king Yudhishthira. Relying on the deception ofthe dice and the skill (therein) of Suvala's son, thou hadst alsomaddened by success, addressed many delirious speech to Bhima![67] Inconsequence of the anger of those illustrious persons, thou art, at last,about to obtain the fruit of that conduct of thine![68]. O thou of wickedunderstanding, obtain thou without delay the fruit[69] of the robbery ofother people's possessions, wrathfulness, of thy hatred of peace, ofavarice, of ignorance, of hostilities (with kinsmen), of injustice andpersecution, of depriving my sires--those fierce bowmen--of theirkingdom, and of thy own fierce temper. I shall today chastise thee withmy arrows in the sight of the whole army. Today, I shall in battledisburden myself of that wrath which I cherish against thee. I shalltoday free myself of the debt I owe to angry Krishna and to my sire whoalways craveth for an opportunity to chastise thee. O Kaurava, today Ishall free myself of the debt I owe to Bhima. With life thou shalt notescape me, if indeed, thou dost not abandon the battle." Having saidthese words, that mighty-armed warrior, that slayer of hostile heroes,aimed a shaft endued with the splendour of Yama or of Agni or of theWind-god, capable of despatching Duhsasana to the other world. Quicklyapproaching Duhsasana's bosom, that shaft fell upon his shoulder-jointand penetrated into his body up to the very wings, like a snake into anant-hill. And soon Abhimanyu once more struck him with five and twentyarrows whose touch resembled that of fire, and which were sped from hisbow drawn to its fullest stretch. Deeply pierced and greatly pained,Duhsasana, sat down on the terrace of his car and was, O king, overtakenby a swoon. Afflicted thus by the arrows of Subhadra's son and deprivedof his senses, Duhsasana was speedily borne away from the midst of thefight by his charioteer. Beholding this, the Pandavas, the five sons ofDraupadi, Virata, the Panchalas, and the Kekayas, uttered leonine shouts.And the troops of the Pandavas, filled with joy, caused diverse kinds ofmusical instruments to be beat and blown. Beholding that feat ofSubhadra's son they laughed with joy. Seeing that implacable and proudfoe of theirs thus vanquished, those mighty car-warriors, viz., the(five) sons of Draupadi, who had on their banners the images of Yama andMaruta and Sakra and the twin Aswins, and Satyaki, and Chekitana, andDhrishtadyumna, and Sikhandin, and the Kekayas, and Dhrishtaketu, and theMatsyas, Panchalas, and the Srinjayas, and the Pandavas headed byYudhishthira, were filled with joy. And all of them rushed with speed,desirous of piercing Drona's array. Then a dreadful battle took placebetween the warriors and those of the foe. All of them were unretreatingheroes, and inspired by desire of victory. During the progress of thatdreadful encounter, Duryodhana, O monarch, addressing the son of Radha,said, "Behold, the heroic Duhsasana, who resembleth the scorching sun whowas hitherto slaying the foe in battle, hath at last himself succumbed toAbhimanyu. The Pandavas also, filled with rage and looking fierce likemighty lions, are rushing towards us, desirous of rescuing the son ofSubhadra." Thus addressed, Karna with rage and desirous of doing good tothy son, rained showers of sharp arrows on the invincible Abhimanyu. Andthe heroic Karna, as if in contempt of his antagonist, also pierced thelatter's followers on the field of battle, with many excellent shafts ofgreat sharpness. The high-souled Abhimanyu, however, O king, desirous ofproceeding against Drona, quickly pierced Radha's son with three andseventy shafts. No car-warrior of thy army succeeded at that time inobstructing the progress towards Drona, of Abhimanyu, who was the son ofIndra's son and who was afflicting all the foremost car-warriors of theKaurava host. Then Karna, the most honoured of all bowmen, desirous ofobtaining victory, pierced the son of Subhadra with hundreds of arrows,displacing his best weapons. That foremost of all persons conversant withweapons, that valiant disciple of Rama, by means of his weapons, thusafflicted Abhimanyu who was incapable of being defeated by foes. Thoughafflicted in battle by Radha's son with showers of weapons, stillSubhadra's son who resembled a very celestial (for prowess) felt no pain.With his shafts whetted on stone and furnished with sharp points, the sonof Arjuna, cutting off the bows of many heroic warriors, began to afflictKarna in return. With shafts resembling snakes of virulent poison andshot from his bow drawn to a circle, Abhimanyu quickly cut off theumbrella, standard, the charioteer, and the steeds of Karna, smiling thewhile. Karna then shot five straight arrows at Abhimanyu. The son ofPhalguna, however, received them fearlessly. Endued with great valour andcourage, the latter then, in a moment, with only a single arrow, cut offKarna's bow and standard and caused them to drop down on the ground.Beholding Karna in such distress, his younger brother, drawing the bowwith great force, speedily proceeded against the son of Subhadra. TheParthas then, and their followers uttered loud shouts and beat theirmusical instruments and applauded the son of Subhadra [for his heroism].'"SECTION XXXIX"Sanjaya said, 'Then the younger brother of Karna, uttering loud roars,bow in hand, and repeatedly stretching the bow-string, quickly placedhimself between those two illustrious warriors. And Karna's brother, withten shafts, pierced invincible Abhimanyu and his umbrella and standardand charioteer and steeds, smiling the while. Beholding Abhimanyu thusafflicted with those arrows, although he had achieved those superhumanfeats in the manner of his sire and grandsire, the warriors of thy armywere filled with delight. Then Abhimanyu, forcibly bending the bow andsmiling the while, with one winged arrow cut off his antagonist's head.That head, severed from the trunk, fell down on the earth. Beholding hisbrother slain and overthrown, like a Karnikara tree shaken and throwndown by the wind from the mountain top, Karna, O monarch, was filled withpain. Meanwhile, the son of Subhadra, causing Karna by means of hisarrows to turn away from the field, quickly rushed against the othergreat bowmen. Then Abhimanyu of fierce energy and great fame, filled withwrath, broke that host of diverse forces abounding with elephants andsteeds and cars and infantry. As regards Karna, afflicted by Abhimanyuwith countless shafts, he fled away from the field borne by swift steeds.The Kaurava array then broke. When the welkin was covered withAbhimanyu's shafts, like flights of locusts or thick showers of rain,nothing, O monarch, could be distinguished. Amongst thy warriors thusslaughtered by Abhimanyu with sharp shafts, none, O monarch, stayed anylonger on the field of battle except the ruler of the Sindhus. Then thatbull among men, viz., the son of Subhadra, blowing his conch, speedilyfell upon the Bharata host, O bull of Bharata's race! Like a burningbrand thrown into the midst of dry grass, Arjuna's son began to consumehis foes, quickly careering through the Kaurava army. Having piercedthrough their array, he mangled cars and elephants and steeds and humanbeings by means of his sharp shafts and caused the field of battle teemwith headless trunks. Cut off by means of excellent arrows shot from thebow of Subhadra's son, the Kaurava warriors fled away, slaying, as theyfled, their own comrades before them. Those fierce arrows, of terribleeffect whetted on stone and countless in number, slaying car-warriorsand elephants, steeds, fell fast on the field. Arms, decked with Angadasand other ornaments of gold, cut off and hands cased in leathern covers,and arrows, and bows, and bodies and heads decked with car-rings andfloral wreaths, lay in thousands on the field. Obstructed with Upashkarasand Adhishthanas and long poles also with crushed Akshas and brokenwheels and yokes, numbering thousands, with darts and bows and swords andfallen standards, and with shields and bows lying all about, with thebodies, O monarch, of slain Kshatriyas and steeds and elephants, thefield of battle, looking exceedingly fierce, soon became impassable. Thenoise made by the princes, as they called upon one another whileslaughtered by Abhimanyu, became deafening and enhanced the fears of thetimid. That noise, O chief of the Bharatas, filled all the points of thecompass. The son of Subhadra, rushed against the (Kaurava) troops,slaying foremost of car-warriors and steeds and elephants, Quicklyconsuming his foes, like a fire playing in the midst of a heap of drygrass, the son of Arjuna was seen careering through the midst of theBharata army. Encompassed as he was by our troops and covered with dust,none of us could obtain a sight of that warrior when, O Bharata, he wascareening over the field in all directions, cardinal and subsidiary. Andhe took the lives of steeds and elephants and human warriors, O Bharata,almost incessantly. And soon after we saw him (come out of the press).Indeed, O monarch, we beheld him then scorching his foes like themeridian sun (scorching everything with his rays). Equal to Vasavahimself in battle, that son of Vasava's son, viz., Abhimanyu, lookedresplendent in the midst of the (hostile) army.'"SECTION XL"Dhritarashtra said, 'A mere child in years, brought up in great luxury,proud of the strength of his arms, accomplished in battle, endued withgreat heroism, the perpetuator of his race, and prepared to lay down hislife--when Abhimanyu penetrated into the Kaurava army, borne on histhree-years old steeds of spirited mettle, was there any of greatwarriors, in Yudhishthira's army, that followed the son of Arjuna?'"Sanjaya said, 'Yudhishthira and Bhimasena, and Sikhandin and Satyaki,and the twins Nakula and Sahadeva, and Dhrishtadyumna and Virata, andDrupada, and Kekaya, and Dhrishtaketu, all filled with wrath, and theMatsya warrior, rushed to battle. Indeed, Abhimanyu's sires accompaniedby his maternal uncles, those smiters of foes, arrayed in order of battlerushed along the self-same path that Abhimanyu had created, desirous ofrescuing him. Beholding those heroes rushing, thy troops turned awayfrom the fight. Seeing then that vast army of thy son turning away fromthe fight, the son-in-law of great energy rushed to rally them. Indeed,king Jayadratha, the son of the ruler of the Sindhus, checked, with alltheir followers, the Parthas, desirous of rescuing their son. That fierceand great bowman, viz. the son of Vriddhakshatra, invoking into existencecelestial weapons resisted the Pandavas, like an elephant sporting in alow land.'[70]"Dhritarashtra said, 'I think, Sanjaya, that heavy was the burthen thrownupon the ruler of the Sindhus, inasmuch as alone he had to resist theangry Pandavas desirous of rescuing their son. Exceedingly wonderful, Ithink, was the might and heroism of the ruler of the Sindhus. Tell mewhat the high-souled warrior's prowess was and how he accomplished thatforemost of feats. What gifts did he make, what libations had he poured,what sacrifices had he performed, what ascetic austerities had he wellundergone, in consequence of which, single-handed, he succeeded inchecking Parthas excited with wrath?'"Sanjaya said, 'On the occasion of his insult to Draupadi, Jayadratha wasvanquished by Bhimasena. From a keen sense of his humiliation, the kingpractised the severest of ascetic austerities, desirous of a boon.Restraining his senses from all objects dear to them, bearing hunger,thirst and heat, he reduced his body till his swollen veins becamevisible. Uttering the eternal words of the Veda, he paid his adoration tothe god Mahadeva. That illustrious Deity, always inspired with compassionfor his devotees, at last, became kind towards him. Indeed, Hara,appearing in a dream unto the ruler of the Sindhus, addressed him, saying"Solicit the boon thou desirest. I am gratified with thee, O Jayadratha!What dost thou desire?" Thus addressed by Mahadeva, Jayadratha, the rulerof the Sindhus, bowed down unto him and said with joined palms andrestrained soul, "Alone, on a single car, I shall check in battle all thesons of Pandu, endued though they are with terrible energy and prowess."Even this, O Bharata, was the boon he had solicited. Thus prayed to thatforemost of the deities said unto Jayadratha, "O amiable one, I grantthee the boon. Except Dhananjaya, the son of Pritha, thou shalt in battlecheck the four other sons of Pandu." "So be it," said Jayadratha untothat Lord of the gods and then awoke, O monarch, from his slumber. Inconsequence of that boon which he had received and of the strength alsoof his celestial weapons, Jayadratha, single-handed, held in check theentire army of the Pandavas. The twang of his bow-string and the slaps ofhis palms inspired the hostile Kshatriyas with fear, filling thy troops,at the same time with delight. And the Kshatriyas (of the Kuru army),beholding that the burthen was taken up by the ruler of the Sindhus,rushed with loud shouts, O monarch, to that part of the field whereYudhishthira's army was.'"SECTION XLI"Sanjaya said, 'Thou askest me, O monarch, about the prowess of the rulerof the Sindhus. Listen to me as I describe in detail how he fought withthe Pandavas. Large steeds of the Sindhu breed, well-trained and fleet asthe wind, and obedient to the commands of the charioteer, bore him (onthat occasion). His car, duly equipped, looked like a vapoury edifice inthe welkin. His standard bearing the device of a large boar in silver,looked exceedingly beautiful. With his white umbrella and banners, andthe yak-tails with which he was fanned--which are regal indications--heshone like the Moon himself in the firmament. His car-fence made of ironwas decked with pearls and diamonds and gems and gold. And it lookedresplendent like the firmament bespangled with luminous bodies. Drawinghis large bow and scattering countless shafts, he once more filled upthat array in those places where openings had been made by the son ofArjuna. And he pierced Satyaki with three arrows, and Vrikodara witheight; and having pierced Dhrishtadyumna with sixty arrows, he piercedDrupada with five sharp ones, and Sikhandin with ten. Piercing then theKaikeyas with five and twenty arrows, Jayadratha pierced each of the fivesons of Draupadi with three arrows. And piercing Yudhishthira then withseventy arrows, the ruler of the Sindhus pierced the other heroes of thePandava army with thick showers of shafts. And that feat of his seemedexceedingly wonderful. Then, O monarch, the valiant son of Dharma, aimingJayadratha's bow, cut it off with a polished and well-tempered shaft,smiling the while. Within the twinkling, however, of the eye, the rulerof the Sindhus took up another bow and piercing Pratha (Yudhishthira)with ten arrows struck each of the others with three shafts. Marking thatlightness of hands showed by Jayadratha, Bhima then with threebroad-headed shafts, quickly felled on the earth his bow, standard andumbrella. The mighty Jayadratha then, taking up another bow, strung itand felled Bhima's standard and bow and steeds, O sire! His bow cut off,Bhimasena then jumping down from that excellent car whose steeds had beenslain, mounted on the car of Satyaki, like a lion jumping to the top of amountain. Seeing this, thy troops were filled with joy. And they loudlyshouted, "Excellent! Excellent!" And they repeatedly applauded that featof the ruler of the Sindhus. Indeed, all creatures highly applauded thatfeat of his, which consisted in his resisting, single-handed, all thePandavas together, excited with wrath. The path that the son of Subhadrahad made for the Pandavas by the slaughter of numerous warriors andelephants was then filled up by the ruler of the Sindhus. Indeed, thoseheroes, viz., the Matsyas, the Panchalas, the Kaikeyas, and the Pandavas,exerting themselves vigorously, succeeded in approaching the presence ofJayadratha, but none of them could bear him. Everyone amongst thy enemieswho endeavoured to pierce the array that had been formed by Drona, waschecked by the ruler of the Sindhus in consequence of the boon he had got(from Mahadeva).'"SECTION XLII"Sanjaya said, 'When the ruler of the Sindhus checked the Pandavas,desirous of success, the battle that took place then between thy troopsand the enemy became awful. The invincible son of Arjuna, of sure aim andmighty energy, having penetrated in the (Kaurava) array agitated it likea Makara agitating the ocean. Against that chastiser of foes then, viz.,the son of Subhadra, who was thus agitating the hostile host with hisarrowy showers, the principal warriors of the Kaurava army rushed, eachaccording to his rank and precedence. The clash between them ofimmeasurable energy, scattering their arrowy showers with great force, onthe one side and Abhimanyu alone on the other, became awful. The son ofArjuna, encompassed on all sides by those enemies with crowds of cars,slew the charioteer of Vrishasena and also cut off his bow. And themighty Abhimanyu then pierced Vrishasena's steeds with his straightshafts, upon which those coursers, with the speed of the wind, boreVrishasena away from the battle. Utilizing that opportunity, Abhimanyu'scharioteer freed his car from that press by taking it away to anotherpart of the field. Those numerous car-warriors then, (beholding thisfeat) were filled with joy and exclaimed, "Excellent! Excellent!" Seeingthe lion-like Abhimanyu angrily slaying the foe with his shafts andadvancing from a distance, Vasatiya, proceeding towards him quickly fellupon him with great force. The latter pierced Abhimanyu with sixty shaftsof golden wings and addressing him, said, "As long as I am alive, thoushalt not escape with life." Cased though he was in an iron coat of mail,the son of Subhadra pierced him in the chest with a far-reaching shaft.Thereupon Vasatiya fell down on the earth, deprived of life. BeholdingVasatiya slain, many bulls among Kshatriyas became filled with wrath, andsurrounded thy grandson, O king, from a desire of slaying him. Theyapproached him, stretching their countless bows of diverse kinds, and thebattle then that took place between the son of Subhadra and his foes wasexceedingly fierce. Then the son of Phalguni, filled with wrath, cut offtheir arrows and bows, and diverse limbs of their bodies, and their headsdecked with ear-rings and floral garlands. And arms were seen lopped off,that were adorned with various ornaments of gold, and that still heldscimitars and spiked maces and battle-axes and the fingers of which werestill cased in leathern gloves. [And the earth became strewn][71] withfloral wreaths and ornaments and cloths, with fallen standards, withcoats of mail and shields and golden chains and diadems and umbrellas andyak-tails; with Upashkaras and Adhishthanas, and Dandakas, and Vandhuraswith crushed Akshas, broken wheels, and yokes, numbering thousands,[72]with Anukarashas, and banners, and charioteers, and steeds; as also withbroken cars, and elephants, and steeds. The field of battle, strewn withslain Kshatriyas endued (while living) with great heroism,--rulers ofdiverse realms, inspired with desire of victory,--presented a fearfulsight. When Abhimanyu angrily careered over the field of battle in alldirections, his very form became invisible. Only his coat of mail, deckedwith gold, his ornaments, and bow and shafts, could be seen. Indeed,while he slew the hostile warriors by means of his shafts, staying intheir midst like the sun himself in his blazing effulgence, none couldgaze at him with his eyes.'"SECTION XLIII"Sanjaya said, 'Engaged in taking the lives of brave warriors, Arjuna'sson then resembled the Destroyer himself, when the latter takes the livesof all creatures on the arrival of the Universal Dissolution. Possessedof prowess resembling that of Sakra himself, the mighty son of Sakra'sson, viz., Abhimanyu, agitating the Kaurava army looked exceedinglyresplendent. Penetrating into the Kaurava host, O king, that destroyerof foremost Kshatriyas resembling Yama himself, seized Satyasravas, likean infuriated tiger seizing a deer. Beholding Satyasrayas, seized by him,many mighty car-warriors, taking up diverse kinds of weapons, rushed uponhim. Indeed, those bulls among Kshatriyas, from a spirit of rivalry,rushed at the son of Arjuna from desire of slaying him, all exclaiming,"I shall go first, I shall go first!" As a whale in the sea obtaining ashoal of small fish seizes them with the greatest ease, even so didAbhimanyu receive that whole division of the rushing Kshatriyas. Likerivers that never go back when they approach the sea, none amongst thoseunretreating Kshatriyas turned back when they approached Abhimanyu. Thatarmy then reeled like a boat tossed on the ocean when overtaken by amighty tempest, (with its crew) afflicted with panic caused by theviolence of the wind. Then the mighty Rukmaratha, son of the ruler of theMadras, for assuring the frightened troops, fearlessly said, "Ye heroes,ye need not fear! When I am here, what is Abhimanyu? Without doubt, Iwill seize this one a living captive". Having said these words, thevaliant prince, borne on his beautiful and well-equipped car, rushed atAbhimanyu. Piercing Abhimanyu with three shafts in the chest, three inthe right arm, and three other sharp shafts in the left arm, he uttered aloud roar. Phalguni's son, however, cutting off his bow, his right andleft arms, and his head adorned with beautiful eyes and eye-brows quicklyfelled them on the earth. Beholding Rukmaratha, the honoured son ofSalya, slain by the illustrious son of Subhadra, that Rukmaratha viz.,who had vowed to consume his foe or take him alive, many princely friendsof Salya's son, O king, accomplished in smiting and incapable of beingeasily defeated in battle, and owning standards decked with gold, (cameup for the fight). Those mighty car-warriors, stretching their bows fullsix cubits long, surrounded the son of Arjuna, all pouring their arrowyshowers upon him. Beholding the brave and invincible son of Subhadrasingly encountered by all those wrathful princes endued with heroism andskill acquired by practice and strength and youth, and seeing him coveredwith showers of arrows, Duryodhana rejoiced greatly, and regardedAbhimanyu as one already made a guest of Yama's abode. Within thetwinkling of an eye, those princes, by means of their shafts of goldenwings, and of diverse forms and great impetuosity, made Arjuna's soninvisible. Himself, his standard, and his car, O sire, were seen by uscovered with shafts like (trees overwhelmed with) flights of locusts.Deeply pierced, he became filled with rage like an elephant struck withthe hook. He then, O Bharata, applied the Gandharva weapon and theillusion consequent to it.[73] Practising ascetic penances, Arjuna hadobtained that weapon from the Gandharva Tumvuru and others. With thatweapon, Abhimanyu now confounded his foes. Quickly displaying hisweapons, he careered in that battle like a circle of fire, and was, Oking, seen sometimes as a single individual, sometimes as a hundred, andsometimes as a thousand ones. Confounding his foes by the skill withwhich his car was guided and by the illusion caused by his weapons, hecut in a hundred pieces, O monarch, the bodies of the kings (opposed tohim). By means of his sharp shafts the lives of living creatures weredespatched. These, O king attained to the other world while their bodiesfell down on the earth. Their bows, and steeds and charioteers, andstandards, and armies decked with Angadar, and heads, the son of Phalgunicut off with his sharp shafts. Those hundred princes were slain andfelled by Subhadra's son like a tope of five-year old mango-trees just onthe point of bearing fruit (laid low by a tempest). Beholding thoseyouthful princes brought up in every luxury, and resembling angry snakesof virulent poison, all slain by the single-handed Abhimanyu, Duryodhanawas filled with fear. Seeing (his) car-warriors and elephants and steedsand foot-soldiers crushed, the Kuru king quickly proceeded in wrathagainst Abhimanyu. Continued for only a short space of time, theunfinished battle between them became exceedingly fierce. Thy son then,afflicted with Abhimanyu's arrows, was obliged to turn back from thefight.'"SECTION XLIV"Dhritarashtra said, 'That which thou tellest me, O Suta, about thebattle, fierce and terrible, between the one and the many, and thevictory of that illustrious one, that story of the prowess of Subhadra'sson is highly wonderful and almost incredible. I do not, however, regardit as a marvel that is absolutely beyond belief in the case of those thathave righteousness for their refuge. After Duryodhana was beaten back anda hundred princes slain, what course was pursued by the warriors of myarmy against the son of Subhadra?'"Sanjaya said, 'Their mouths became dry, and eyes restless. Sweat coveredtheir bodies, and their hairs stood on their ends. Despairing ofvanquishing their foe, they became ready to leave the field. Abandoningtheir wounded brothers and sires and sons and friends and relatives bymarriage and kinsmen they fled, urging their steeds and elephants totheir utmost speed. Beholding them broken and routed, Drona and Drona'sson, and Vrihadvala, and Kripa, and Duryodhana, and Karna, andKritavarman, and Suvala's son (Sakuni), rushed in great wrath against theunvanquished son of Subhadra. Almost all these, O king, were beaten backby thy grandson. Only one warrior then, viz., Lakshmana, brought up inluxury, accomplished in arrows, endued with great energy, and fearless inconsequence of inexperience and pride, proceeded against the son ofArjuna. Anxious about his son, his father (Duryodhana) turned back forfollowing him. Other mighty car warriors, turned back for followingDuryodhana. All of them then drenched Abhimanyu with showers of arrows,like clouds pouring rain on the mountain-breast. Abhimanyu, however,single-handed, began to crush them like the dry wind that blows in everydirection destroying gathering masses of clouds. Like one infuriatedelephant encountering another, Arjuna's son then encountered thyinvincible grandson, Lakshmana, of great personal beauty, endued withgreat bravery, staying near his father with outstretched bow, brought upin every luxury, and resembling a second prince of the Yakshas[74].Encountering Lakshmana, that slayer of hostile heroes, viz., the son ofSubhadra, had his two arms and chest struck with his sharp shafts. Thygrandson, the mighty-armed Abhimanyu then, filled with rage like a snakestruck (with a rod), addressing, O king, thy (other) grandson, said,"Look well on this world, for thou shalt (soon) have to go to the other.In the very sight of all thy kinsmen, I will despatch thee to Yama'sabode." Saying thus that slayer of hostile heroes, viz., the mighty-armedson of Subhadra, took out a broad-headed arrow that resembled a snakejust emerged from its slough. That shaft, sped by Abhimanyu's arms, cutoff the beautiful head, decked with ear-rings, of Lakshmana, that wasgraced with a beautiful nose, beautiful eye-brows, and exceedinglygood-looking curls. Beholding Lakshmana slain, thy troops utteredexclamations of Oh and, Alas. Upon the slaughter of his dear son,Duryodhana became filled with rage. That bull among Kshatriyas thenloudly urged the Kshatriyas under him, saying, "Slay this one!" ThenDrona, and Kripa, and Karna, and Drona's son and Vrihadvala, andKritavarman, the son of Hridika,--these six car-warriors,--encompassedAbhimanyu. Piercing them with sharp arrows and beating them off from him,the son of Arjuna fell with great speed and fury upon the vast forces ofJayadratha. Thereupon, the Kalingas, the Nishadas, and the valiant son ofKratha, all clad in mail, cut off his path by encompassing him with theirelephant-division. The battle then that took place between Phalguni's sonand those warriors was obstinate and fierce. Then the son of Arjuna beganto destroy that elephant-division as the wind coursing in every directiondestroys vast masses of gathering clouds in the welkin. Then Krathacovered the son of Arjuna with showers of arrows, while many othercar-warriors headed by Drona, having returned to the field, rushed athim, scattering sharp and mighty weapons. Checking all those weapons bymeans of his own arrows, the son of Arjuna began to afflict the son ofKratha with ceaseless showers of shafts, with great despatch and inspiredby the desire of slaying his antagonist. The latter's bow and shafts, andbracelets, and arms, and head decked with diadem, and umbrella, andstandard, and charioteer, and steeds, were all cut off and felled byAbhimanyu. When Kratha's son, possessed of nobility of lineage, goodbehaviour, acquaintance with the scriptures, great strength, fame, andpower of arms, was slain, the other heroic combatants almost all turnedaway from the fight.'"[75]SECTION XLV"Dhritarashtra said, 'While the youthful and invincible son of Subhadra,never retreating from battle, was, after penetrating into our array,engaged in achieving feats worthy of his lineage, borne by his three-yearold steeds of great might and of the best breed, and apparently trottingin the welkin, what heroes of my army encompassed him?'"Sanjaya said, 'Having penetrated into our array, Abhimanyu of Pandu'srace, by means of his sharp shafts, made all the kings turn away from thefight. Then Drona, and Kripa, and Karna, and Drona's son, and Vrihadvalaand Kritavarman, the son of Hridika,--these sixcar-warriors,--encompassed him. As regards the other combatants of thyarmy, beholding that Jayadratha had taken upon himself the heavy duty (ofkeeping off the Pandavas), they supported him, O king, by rushing againstYudhishthira.[76] Many amongst them, endued with great strength, drawingtheir bows full six cubits long, showered on the heroic son of Subhadraarrowy downpours like torrents of rain. Subhadra's son, however, thatslayer of hostile heroes, paralysed by his shafts all those great bowmen,conversant with every branch of learning. And he pierced Drona with fiftyarrows and Vrihadvala with twenty. And piercing Kritavarman with eightyshafts, he pierced Kripa with sixty. And the son of Arjuna piercedAswatthaman with ten arrows equipped with golden wings, endued with greatspeed and shot from his bow drawn to its fullest stretch. And the son ofPhalguni pierced Karna, in the midst of his foes, in one of his cars,with a bright, well-tempered, and bearded arrow of great force. Fellingthe steeds yoked to Kripa's car, as also both his Parshni charioteers,Abhimanyu pierced Kripa himself in the centre of the chest with tenarrows. The mighty Abhimanyu, then, in the very sight of thy heroic sons,slew the brave Vrindaraka, that enhancer of the fame of the Kurus. WhileAbhimanyu was thus engaged in fearlessly slaying one after another theforemost warriors among his enemies, Drona's son Aswatthaman pierced himwith five and twenty small arrows. The son of Arjuna, however, in thevery sight of all the Dhartarashtras quickly pierced Aswatthaman inreturn, O sire, with many whetted shafts. Drona's son, however, inreturn, piercing Abhimanyu with sixty fierce arrows of great impetuosityand keen sharpness, failed to make him tremble, for the latter, piercedby Aswatthaman, stood immovable like the Mainaka mountain. Endued withgreat energy, the mighty Abhimanyu then pierced his antagonist with threeand seventy straight arrows, equipped with wings of gold. Drona then,desirous of rescuing his son, pierced Abhimanyu with a hundred arrows.And Aswatthaman pierced him with sixty arrows, desirous of rescuing hisfather. And Karna struck him with two and twenty broad-headed arrows andKritavarman struck him with four and ten. And Vrihadvala pierced him withfifty such shafts, and Saradwata's son, Kripa, with ten. Abhimanyu,however, pierced each of these in return with ten shafts. The ruler ofthe Kosala struck Abhimanyu in the chest with a barbed arrow. Abhimanyu,however, quickly felled on the earth his antagonist's steeds and standardand bow and charioteer. The ruler of the Kosalas, then, thus deprived ofhis car, took up a sword and wished to sever from Abhimanyu's trunk hisbeautiful head, decked with ear-rings. Abhimanyu then pierced kingVrihadvala, the ruler of the Kosalas, in the chest, with a strong arrow.The latter then, with riven heart, fell down. Beholding this, tenthousand illustrious kings broke and fled. Those kings, armed with swordsand bows, fled away, uttering words inimical (to king Duryodhana'sinterest). Having slain[77] Vrihadvala thus, the son of Subhadra careeredin battle, paralysing thy warriors,--those great bowmen,--by means ofarrowy downpours, thick as rain.'"[78]SECTION XLVI"Sanjaya said, 'Phalguni's son once more pierced Karna in the car with abarbed arrow, and for angering him still further, he pierced him withfifty other shafts. The son of Radha pierced Abhimanyu in return with asmany shafts. Covered all over with arrows, Abhimanyu, then, O sire,looked exceedingly beautiful. Filled with rage, he caused Karna also tobe bathed in blood. Mangled with arrows and covered with blood, the braveKarna also shone greatly.[79] Both of them pierced with arrows, bothbathed in blood, those illustrious warriors then resembled a couple offlowering Kinsukas. The son of Subhadra then slew six of Karna's bravecounsellors, conversant with all modes of warfare, with their steeds andcharioteers and cars. As regards other great bowmen Abhimanyu fearlesslypierced each of them in return, with ten arrows. That feat of his seemedhighly wonderful. Slaying next the son of the ruler of the Magadhas,Abhimanyu, with six straight shafts, slew the youthful Aswaketu with hisfour steeds and charioteer. Then slaying, with a sharp razor-headedarrow, the Bhoja prince of Martikavata, bearing the device of an elephant(on his banner), the son of Arjuna uttered a loud shout and began toscatter his shafts on all sides. Then the son of Duhsasana pierced thefour steeds of Abhimanyu with four shafts, his charioteer with one andAbhimanyu himself with ten. The son of Arjuna, then, piercing Duhsasana'sson with ten fleet shafts, addressed him in a loud tone and with eyes redin wrath, said, "Abandoning the battle, thy sire hath fled like a coward.It is well thou knowest how to fight. Thou shalt not, however, escapetoday with life." Saying these words unto him, Abhimanyu sped a longarrow, well polished by smith's hand, at his foe. The son of Drona cutthat arrow with three shafts of his own. Leaving Aswatthaman alone,Arjuna's son struck Salya, in return, fearlessly pierced him in the chestwith highly nine shafts, equipped with vulture's feathers. That featseemed highly wonderful. The son of Arjuna then cut off Salya's bow andslew both his Parshni charioteers. Abhimanyu then pierced Salya himselfwith six shafts made wholly of iron. Thereupon, the latter, leaving thatsteedless car, mounted another. Abhimanyu then slew five warriors, namedSatrunjaya, and Chandraketu, and Mahamegba, and Suvarchas, andSuryabhasa. He then pierced Suvala's son. The latter piercing Abhimanyuwith three arrows, said unto Duryodhana, "Let us all together grind thisone, else, fighting singly with us he will slay us all. O king, think ofthe means of slaying this one, taking counsel with Drona and Kripa andothers." Then Karna, the son of Vikartana, said unto Drona, "Abhimanyugrindeth us all. Tell us the means by which we may slay him." Thusaddressed, the mighty bowman, Drona, addressing them all, said,"Observing him with vigilance, have any of you been able to detect anydefeat in this youth? He is careening in all directions. Yet have any ofyou been able to detect today the least hole in him? Behold the lightnessof hand and quickness of motion of this lion among men, this son ofArjuna. In the track of his car, only his bow drawn to a circle can beseen, so quickly is he aiming his shafts and so quickly is he lettingthem off. Indeed, this slayer of hostile heroes, viz., the son ofSubhadra, gratifieth me although he afflicteth my vital breath andstupefieth me with shafts. Even the mightiest car-warriors, filled withwrath, are unable to detect any flaw in him. The son of Subhadra,therefore, careering on the field of battle, gratifieth me greatly. I donot see that in battle there is any difference between the wielder ofGandiva himself and this one of great lightness of hand, filling all thepoints of the horizon with his mighty shafts." Hearing these words,Karna, afflicted with the shafts of Arjuna's son, once more said untoDrona, "Exceedingly afflicted with the shafts of Abhimanyu, I am stayingin battle, only because (as a warrior) I should stay here. Indeed, thearrows of this youth of great energy are exceedingly fierce. Terrible asthey are and possessed of the energy of fire, these arrows are weakeningmy heart." The preceptor then, slowly and with a smile, said unto Karna,"Abhimanyu is young, his prowess is great. His coat of mail isimpenetrable. This one's father had been taught by me the method ofwearing defensive armour. This subjugator of hostile towns assuredlyknoweth the entire science (of wearing armour). With shafts well shot,you can, however, cut off his bow, bow-string, the reins of his steeds,the steeds themselves, and two Parshni charioteers. O mighty bowman, Oson of Radha, if competent, do this. Making him turn back from the fight(by this means), strike him then. With his bow in hand he is incapable ofbeing vanquished by the very gods and the Asuras together. If you wish,deprive him of his car, and divest him of his bow." Hearing these wordsof the preceptor, Vikartana's son Karna quickly cut off, by means of hisshafts, the bow of Abhimanyu, as the latter was shooting with greatactivity. He, of Bhoja's race (viz., Kritavarman) then slew his steeds,and Kripa slew his two Parshni charioteers. The others covered him withshowers of arrows after he had been divested of his bow. Those six greatcar-warriors, with great speed, when speed was so necessary, ruthlesslycovered that carless youth, fighting single-handed with them, withshowers of arrows. Bowless and carless, with an eye, however, to his duty(as a warrior), handsome Abhimanyu, taking up a sword and a shield,jumped into the sky. Displaying great strength and great activity, anddescribing the tracks called Kausika and others, the son of Arjunafiercely coursed through the sky, like the prince of winged creatures(viz., Garuda.). "He may fall upon me sword in hand," with such thoughts,those mighty bowmen, were on the lookout for the laches of Abhimanyu, andbegan to pierce him in that battle, with their gaze turned upwards. ThenDrona of mighty energy, that conqueror of foes with a sharp arrow quicklycut off the hilt, decked with gems, of Abhimanyu's sword. Radha's sonKarna, with sharp shafts, cut off his excellent shield. Deprived of hissword and shield thus, he came down, with sound limbs, from the welkinupon the earth. Then taking up a car-wheel, he rushed in wrath againstDrona. His body bright with the dust of car-wheels, and himself holdingthe car-wheel in his upraised arms, Abhimanyu looked exceedinglybeautiful, and imitating Vasudeva (with his discus), became awfullyfierce for a while in that battle. His robes dyed with the blood flowing(from his wounds), his brow formidable with the wrinkles visible thereon,himself uttering loud leonine roars, lord Abhimanyu of immeasurablemight, staying in the midst of those kings, looked exceedinglyresplendent on the field of battle.'"SECTION XLVII"Sanjaya said, 'That joy of Vishnu's sister (viz., Abhimanyu), thatAtiratha, decked with the weapons of Vishnu himself, looked exceedinglybeautiful on the field of battle and looked like a second Janardana. Withthe end of his locks waving in the air, with that supreme weapon upraisedin his hands, his body became incapable of being looked at by the verygods. The kings beholding it and the wheel in his hands, became filledwith anxiety, and cut that off in a hundred fragments. Then that greatcar-warrior, the son of Arjuna, took up a mighty mace. Deprived by themof his bow and car and sword, and divested also of his wheel by his foes,the mighty-armed Abhimanyu (mace in hand) rushed against Aswatthaman.Beholding that mace upraised, which looked like the blazing thunderbolt,Aswatthaman, that tiger among men, rapidly alighted from his car and tookthree (long) leaps (for avoiding Abhimanyu). Slaying Aswatthaman's steedsand two Parshni charioteers with that mace of his, Subhadra's son,pierced all over with arrows, looked like a porcupine. Then that heropressed Suvala's son, Kalikeya, down into the earth, and slew seven andseventy Gandhara followers of the latter. Next, he slew ten car-warriorsof the Brahma-Vasatiya race, and then ten huge elephants. Proceeding nexttowards the car of Duhsasana's son, he crushed the latter's car andsteeds, pressing them down into the earth. The invincible son ofDuhsasana, then, O sire, taking up his mace, rushed at Abhimanyu, saying,"Wait, Wait!" Then those cousins, those two heroes, with upraised maces,began to strike each other, desirous of achieving each other's death,like three-eyed (Mahadeva) and (the Asura) Andhaka in the days of old.Each of those chastisers of foes, struck with the other's mace-ends felldown on the earth, like two uprooted standards erected to the honour ofIndra. Then Duhsasana's son, that enhancer of the fame of the Kurus,rising up first, struck Abhimanyu with the mace on the crown of his head,as the latter was on the point of rising. Stupefied with the violence ofthat stroke as also with the fatigue he had undergone, that slayer ofhostile hosts, viz., the son of Subhadra, fell on the earth, deprived ofhis senses. Thus, O king, was one slain by many in battle,--one who hadground the whole army, like an elephant grinding lotus-stalks in a lake.As he lay dead on the field, the heroic Abhimanyu looked like a wildelephant slain by the hunters. The fallen hero was then surrounded by thytroops. And he looked like an extinguished fire in the summer seasonafter (as it lies) having consumed a whole forest, or like a tempestdivested of its fury after having crushed mountain crests;[80] or likethe sun arrived at the western hills after having blasted with his heatthe Bharata host; or like Soma swallowed up by Rahu; or like the oceanreft of water. The mighty car-warriors of thy army beholding Abhimanyuwhose face had the splendour of the full moon, and whose eyes wererendered beautiful in consequence of lashes black as the feathers of theraven, lying prostrate on the bare earth, were filled with great joy. Andthey repeatedly uttered leonine shouts. Indeed, O monarch, thy troopswere in transports of joy, while tears fell fast from the eyes of thePandava heroes. Beholding the heroic Abhimanyu lying on the field ofbattle, like the moon dropped from the firmament, diverse creatures, Oking, in the welkin, said aloud, "Alas, this one lieth on the field,slain, while fighting singly, by six mighty car-warriors of theDhartarashtra army, headed by Drona and Karna. This act hath been, wehold, an unrighteous one." Upon the slaughter of that hero, the earthlooked exceedingly resplendent like the star-bespangled firmament withthe moon. Indeed, the earth was strewn with shafts equipped with wings ofgold, and covered with waves of blood. And strewn with the beautifulheads of heroes, decked with ear-rings and variegated turbans of greatvalue, and banners and yak-tails and beautiful blankets, and begemmedweapons of great efficacy, and the bright ornaments of cars and steeds,and men and elephants, and sharp and well-tempered swords, looking likesnakes freed from their sloughs, and bows, and broken shafts, and darts,and swords, and lances, and Kampanas, and diverse other kinds of weapons,she assumed a beautiful aspect. And in consequence of the steeds dead ordying, but all weltering in blood, with their riders (lying about them),felled by Subhadra's son, the earth in many places became impassable. Andwith iron hooks, and elephants--huge as hills--equipped with shields andweapons and standards, lying about, crushed with shafts, with excellentcars deprived of steeds and charioteers and car-warriors, lying scatteredon the earth, crushed by elephants and looking like agitated lakes, withlarge bodies of foot-soldiers decked with diverse weapons and lying deadon the ground, the field of battle, wearing a terrible aspect, inspiredall timid hearts with terror."'Beholding Abhimanyu, resplendent as the sun or the moon, lying on theground, thy troops were in transport of joy, while Pandavas were filledwith grief. When youthful Abhimanyu, yet in his minority, fell, thePandava divisions, O king, fled away in the very sight of kingYudhishthira. Beholding his army breaking upon the fall of Subhadra'sson, Yudhishthira addressed his brave warriors, saying, "The heroicAbhimanyu, who without retreating from battle hath been slain, hathcertainly ascended to heaven. Stay then, and fear not, for we shall yetvanquish our foes." Endued with great energy and great splendour, kingYudhishthira the just, that foremost of warriors, saying such words untohis soldiers inspired with grief, endeavoured to dispel their stupor. Theking continued, "Having in the first instance, slain in battle hostileprinces, resembling snakes of virulent poison, the son of Arjuna haththen given up his life. Having slain ten thousand warriors, viz., theking of the Kosalas, Abhimanyu, who was even like Krishna or Arjunahimself, hath assuredly gone to the abode of Indra. Having destroyed carsand steeds and men and elephants by thousands, he was still not contentwith what he did. Performing as he did such meritorious feats, we shouldnot certainly grieve for him, he hath gone to the bright regions of therighteous, regions that men acquire by meritorious deeds."'"SECTION XLVIII"Sanjaya said, 'Having thus slain one of their foremost warriors, andhaving been afflicted with their arrows, we came back to our encampmentin the evening, covered with blood. Steadfastly gazed at by the enemy, weslowly left, O monarch, the field of battle, having sustained a severeloss and nearly deprived of our senses. Then came that wonderful hourintervening between day and night. Inauspicious howls of jackals wereheard. The sun, with the pale-red hue of the filaments of thelotus, sank low in the horizon, having approached the western hills. Andhe took away with him the splendour of our swords and darts, rapiers andcar-fences, and shields and ornaments. Causing the firmament and theearth to assume the same hue, the sun assumed his favourite form of fire.The field of battle was strewn with the motionless bodies of innumerableelephants deprived of life, looking like crests of cloud-capped hillsriven by the thunder, and lying about with their standards and hooks andriders fallen from their backs. The earth looked beautiful with largecars crushed to pieces, and with their warriors and charioteers andornaments and steeds and standards and banners crushed, broken and torn.Those huge cars, O king, looked like living creatures deprived of theirlives by the foe with his shafts. The field of battle assumed a fierceand awful aspect in consequence of large number of steeds and riders alllying dead, with costly trappings and blankets of diverse kinds scatteredabout, and tongues and teeth and entrails and eyes of those creaturesbulging out of their places. Men decked with costly coats of mail andornaments and robes and weapons, deprived of life, lay with slain steedsand elephants and broken cars, on the bare ground, perfectly helpless,although deserving of costly beds and blankets. Dogs and jackals, andcrown and cranes and other carnivorous birds, and wolves and hyenas, andravens and other food-drinking creatures, all diverse tribes ofRakshasas, and large number of Pisachas, on the field of battle, tearingthe skins of the corpse and drinking their fat, blood and marrow, beganto eat their flesh. And they began to suck also the secretions of rottencorpses, while the Rakshasas laughed horribly and sang aloud, draggingdead bodies numbering thousands. An awful river, difficult to cross, likethe Vaitarani itself, was caused there by foremost of warriors. Itswaters were constituted by the blood (of fallen creatures). Carsconstituted the rafts (on which to cross it), elephants formed itsrocks, and the heads of human beings, its smaller stones. And it was mirywith the flesh (of slain steeds and elephants and men). And diverse kindsof costly weapons constituted the garlands (floating on it or lying onits banks). And that terrible river flowed fiercely through the middle ofthe field of battle, wafting living creatures to the regions of the dead.And large numbers of Pisachas, of horrible and repulsive forms, rejoiced,drinking and eating in that stream. And dogs and jackals and carnivorousbirds, all eating of the same food, and inspiring living creatures withterror, held their high carnival there. And the warriors, gazing on thatfield of battle which, enhancing the population of Yama's domain,presented such an awful sight, and where human corpses rising up, beganto dance, slowly left it as they beheld the mighty car-warrior Abhimanyuwho resembled Sakra himself, lying on the field, his costly ornamentsdisplaced and fallen off, and looking like a sacrificial fire on thealtar no longer drenched with clarified butter.'"SECTION XLIX"Sanjaya said, 'After the slaughter of that hero, that leader ofcar-divisions, viz., the son of Subhadra, the Pandava warriors, leavingtheir cars and putting off their armour, and throwing aside their bows,sat, surrounding king Yudhishthira. And they were brooding over thatgrief of theirs, their hearts fixed upon the (deceased) Abhimanyu.Indeed, upon the fall of that heroic nephew of his, viz., the mightycar-warrior Abhimanyu, king Yudhishthira, overwhelmed with grief,indulged in (these) lamentations: "Alas, Abhimanyu, from desire ofachieving my good, pierced the array formed by Drona and teeming with hissoldiers. Encountering him in battle, mighty bowmen endued with greatcourage, accomplished in weapons and incapable of being easily defeatedin battle, were routed and forced to retreat. Encountering our implacablefoe Duhsasana in battle, he with his arrows, caused that warrior to flyaway from the field, deprived of his senses. Alas, the heroic son ofArjuna, having crossed the vast sea of Drona's army, was ultimatelyobliged to become a guest of Yama's abode, upon encountering the son ofDuhsasana. When Abhimanyu is slain, how shall I cast my eyes on Arjunaand also the blessed Subhadra deprived of her favourite son? Whatsenseless, disjointed, and improper words shall we have to say today untoHrishikesa and Dhananjaya! Desirous of achieving what is good, andexpectant of victory, it is I who have done this great evil unto Subhadraand Kesava and Arjuna. He that is covetous never beholdeth his faults.Covetousness spring from folly. Collectors of honey see not the fall thatis before them; I am even like them. He who was only a child, he whoshould have been provided with (good) food, with vehicles, with beds,with ornaments, alas, even he was placed by us in the van of battle. Howcould good come to a child of tender years, unskilled in battle, in sucha situation of great danger. Like a horse of proud mettle, he sacrificedhimself instead of refusing to do the bidding of his master. Alas, wealso shall today lay ourselves down on the bare earth, blasted by theglances of grief, cast by Arjuna filled with wrath. Dhananjaya, liberal,intelligent, modest, forgiving, handsome, mighty, possessed ofwell-developed and beautiful limbs, respectful to superiors, heroic,beloved, and devoted to truth, of glorious achievements, the very godsapplaud his feats. That valiant hero slew the Nivatakavachas and theKalakeyas, those enemies of Indra having their abode in Hiranyapura. Inthe twinkling of an eye he slew the Paulomas with all their followers.Endued with great might, he granteth quarter to implacable enemies askingfor quarter. Alas, we could not protect today the son of even such aperson from danger. A great fear hath overtaken the Dhartarashtras enduedthough they might be with great strength![81] Enraged at the slaughter ofhis son, Partha will exterminate the Kauravas. It is evident also thatthe mean-minded Duryodhana having mean counsellors, that destroyer of hisown race and partisans, beholding this extermination of the Kaurava army,will give up his life in grief. Beholding this son of Indra's son, ofunrivalled energy and prowess, on the field of battle, neither victory,nor sovereignty, nor immortality, nor abode with the very celestials,causeth me the least delight!"'"SECTION L"Sanjaya said, 'While Kunti's son, Yudhishthira, was indulging in suchlamentations, the great Rishi Krishna Dwaipayana came to him. Worshippinghim duly, and causing him to be seated, Yudhishthira, afflicted withgrief on account of the death of his brother's son, said, "Alas, whilebattling with many mighty bowmen, the son of Subhadra, surrounded byseveral great car-warriors of unrighteous propensities, hath been slainon the field. The slayer of hostile heroes, the son of Subhadra, was achild in years and of childish understanding.[82] He fought in battleagainst desperate odds. I asked him to open a passage for us in battle.He penetrated within the hostile army, but we could not follow him,obstructed by the ruler of the Sindhus. Alas, they that betake themselvesto battle as a profession, always fight with antagonists equallycircumstanced with themselves. This battle, however, that the enemyfought with Abhimanyu, was an extremely unequal one. It is that whichgrieves me greatly and draws tears from me. Thinking of this, I fail toregain peace of mind."'"Sanjaya continued, 'The illustrious Vyasa, addressing Yudhishthira whowas indulging in such lamentations and who was thus unmanned by anaccession of sorrow, said these words.'"'Vyasa said, "O Yudhishthira, O thou of great wisdom, O thou that artmaster of all branches of knowledge, persons like thee never sufferthemselves to be stupefied by calamities. This brave youth, having slainnumerous foes hath ascended to heaven. Indeed, that best of persons,(though a child), acted, however, like one of matured years. OYudhishthira, this law is incapable of being transgressed. O Bharata,Death takes all viz., Gods and Danavas and Gandharvas (withoutexception).""'Yudhishthira said, "Alas, these lords of earth, that lie on the bareearth, slain in the midst of their forces, bereft of consciousness, werepossessed of great might. Others (of their class) possessed strengthequal to that of ten thousand elephants. Others, again, were endued withthe impetuosity and might of the very wind. They have all perished inbattle, slain by men of their own class. I do not behold the person (saveone of their own class) who could slay any of them in battle. Endued withgreat prowess, they were possessed of great energy and great might. Alas,they who used daily to come to battle with this hope firmly implanted intheir hearts, viz., that they would conquer, alas even they, possessed ofgreat wisdom, are lying on a field, struck (with weapons) and deprived oflife. The significance of the word Death hath today been madeintelligible, for these lords of earth, of terrible prowess, have almostall been dead. Those heroes are lying motionless; reft of vanity, havingsuccumbed to foes. Many princes, filled with wrath, have been victimisedbefore the fire (of their enemies' wrath). A great doubt possesses me,viz., whence is Death? Whose (offspring) is Death? What is Death? Whydoes Death take away creatures? O grandsire, O thou that resemblest agod, tell me this."'"Sanjaya continued, 'Unto Kunti's son, Yudhishthira, asking him thus, theillustrious Rishi, comforting him, said these words.'"'Vyasa said, "As regards the matter in hand, O king, this ancient story ofwhat Narada had in days of old said unto Akampana is cited. KingAkampana, O monarch, I know, while in this world was afflicted with verygreat and unbearable grief on account of the death of his son, I will nowtell thee the excellent story about the origin of Death. Having listenedto it, thou wilt be emancipated from sorrow and the touch of affection'stie. Listen to me, O sire, as I recite this ancient history. This historyis, indeed, excellent. It enhanceth the period of life, killeth grief andconduceth to health. It is sacred, destructive of large bodies of foes,and auspicious of all auspicious things. Indeed, this history is even asthe study of the Vedas. O monarch, it should every morning be listened toby the foremost of kings who are desirous of longlived children and theirown good."'"In days of old, O sire, there was a king named Akampana. Once, on thefield of battle, he was surrounded by his foes and nearly overpowered bythem. He had a son who was called Hari. Equal to Narayana himself inmight, that latter was exceedingly handsome, accomplished in weapons,gifted with great intelligence, possessed of might, resembled Sakrahimself in battle. Encompassed by countless foes on the field of battle,he sped thousands of shafts at those warriors and the elephants thatsurrounded him. Having achieved the most difficult feats in battle, OYudhishthira, that scorcher of foes was, at last, slain in the midst ofthe army. Performing the obsequies of his son, king Akampana cleansedhimself.[83] Grieving, however, for his son day and night, the kingfailed to regain happiness of mind. Informed of his grief on account ofthe death of his son, the celestial Rishi Narada came to his presence.The blessed king, beholding the celestial Rishi, told the lattereverything that had happened unto him, viz., his defeat at the hands ofhis foes, and the slaughter of his son. And the king said, 'My son wasendued with great energy, and equalled Indra or Vishnu himself insplendour. That mighty son of mine, having displayed his prowess on thefield against countless foes was at last slain! O illustrious one, who isthis Death? What is the measure of his energy, strength and prowess? Oforemost of intelligent persons, I desire to hear all this truly.'Hearing these words of his, the boon giving lord, Narada, recited thefollowing elaborate history, destructive of grief on account of a son'sdeath."'"Narada said, 'Listen, O mighty-armed king, to this long history, exactlyas I have heard it, O monarch! In the beginning, the Grandsire Brahmacreated all creatures. Endued with mighty energy, he saw that thecreation bore no signs of decay. Thereat, O king, the Creator began tothink about the destruction of the universe. Reflecting on the matter, Omonarch, the Creator failed to find any means of destruction. He thenbecame angry, and in consequence of his anger a fire sprang from the sky.That fire spread in all directions for consuming everything of theuniverse. Then heaven, sky, and earth, all became filled with fire. Andthus the Creator began to consume the whole mobile and immobile universe.Thereby all creatures, mobile and immobile, were destroyed. Indeed, themighty Brahma, frightening everything by the force of his wrath, did allthis. Then Hara, otherwise called Sthanu or Siva, with matted locks onhis head, that Lord of all wanderers of the night, appealed to the divineBrahma, the Lord of the gods. When Sthanu fell (at Brahma's feet) from adesire of doing good to all creatures, the Supreme Deity to that greatestof ascetics, blazing with splendour, said, "What wish of thine shall weaccomplish, O thou that deservest to have all thy wishes fulfilled? Othou that hast been born of our wish! We shall do all that may beagreeable to thee! Tell us, O Sthanu, what is thy wish?"'"'"SECTION LI"'"'Sthanu said, "O lord, thou hadst taken great care for creating diversecreatures. Indeed, creatures of diverse kinds were created and reared bythee. Those very creatures, again, are now being consumed through thyfire. Seeing this, I am filled with compassion. O illustrious lord, beinclined to grace.""'"'Brahma said, "I had no desire of destroying the universe, I desiredgood of the earth, and it was for this that wrath possessed me. The goddessEarth, afflicted with the heavy weight of creatures, always urged me fordestroying the creatures on her. Urged by her, I could not however, findany means for the destruction of the infinite creation. At this wrathpossessed me.""'"'Rudra said, "Be inclined to grace. O lord of the universe, cherish notthe wrath for the destruction of creatures. No more let creatures,immobile and mobile, be destroyed. Through thy grace, O illustrious one,let the threefold universe, viz., the Future, the Past, and the Presentexist. Thou, O Lord, hadst blazed up with wrath. From that wrath ofthine, a substance like fire sprang into existence. That fire is even nowblasting rocks and trees and rivers, and all kinds of herbs and grass.Indeed, that fire is exterminating the immobile and the mobile universe.The mobile and the immobile universe is being reduced to ashes. Beinclined to grace, O illustrious one! Do not give way to wrath. Even thisis the boon I solicit. All created things, O divine Being, belonging tothee, are being destroyed. Therefore, let thy wrath be appeased. Let itbe annihilated in thy own self. Cast thy eye on thy creatures, inspiredwith the desire of doing them good. Do that by which creatures enduedwith life may not cease to be. Let not these creatures, with theirproductive powers weakened be exterminated. O Creator of the worlds, thouhast appointed me their Protector, O Lord of the universe, let not themobile and the immobile universe to be destroyed. Thou art inclined tograce, and it is for this that I say these words unto thee."'"'"Narada continued, 'Hearing these words (of Mahadeva) the divine Brahma,from desire of benefiting creatures, held in his own inner self his wraththat had been roused. Extinguishing the fire, the divine Benefactor ofthe world, the great Master, declared the duties of Production andEmancipation. And while the Supreme Deity exterminated that fire born ofhis wrath, there came out from the doors of his diverse senses a femalewho was dark and red and tawny, whose tongue and face and eyes were red,and who was decked with two brilliant ear-rings and diverse otherbrilliant ornaments. Issuing out of his body, she smilingly looked atthose two lords of the universe and then set out for the southernquarter. Then Brahma, that controller of the creation and destruction ofthe worlds, called after her by the name of Death. And Brahma, O king,said unto her, "Slay these creatures of mine! Thou hast been born of thatwrath of mine which I cherished for the destruction (of the universe). Bydoing this, kill all creatures including idiots and seers at my command.By doing this, thou wilt be benefited." The lotus-lady, called Death,thus addressed by him reflected deeply, and then helplessly wept aloud inmelodious accents. The Grandsire then caught the tears she had shed, withhis two hands, for the benefit of all creatures, and began to implore her(with these words).'"'"SECTION LII"'"Narada said, 'The helpless lady, suppressing her arrow within her ownself, addressed, with joined hands, the Lord of the creation, bendingwith humility like a creeper. And she said, "O foremost of speakers,created by thee how shall I, being a female, do such a cruel and evil actknowing it to be cruel and evil? I fear unrighteousness greatly. O divineLord, be inclined to grace. Sons and friends and brothers and sires andhusbands are always dear; (if I kill them), they who will suffer theselosses will seek to injure me. It is this that I fear. The tears thatwill fall from the eyes of woe-stricken and weeping persons, inspire mewith fear, O Lord! I seek thy protection. O divine Being, O foremost ofgods, I will not go to Yama's abode. O boon-giving one, I implore thee ofthy grace, bowing my head and joining my palms. O grandsire of theworlds, I solicit (the accomplishment of even) this wish at thyhands![84] I desire, with thy permission, to undergo ascetic penances, OLord of created things! Grant me this boon, O divine Being, O greatmaster! Permitted by thee, I will go to the excellent asylum of Dhenuka!Engaged in adoring Thyself, I will undergo the severest austeritiesthere. I will not be able, O Lord of the gods, to take away the dearlife-breaths of living creatures weeping in sorrow. Protect me fromunrighteousness.""'"'Brahma said, "O Death, thou hast been intended for achieving thedestruction of creatures. Go, destroy all creatures, thou needst have noscruples. Even this must be. It cannot be otherwise. Do but my behest.Nobody in the world will find any fault in thee."'"'"Narada continued, 'Thus addressed, that lady became very muchaffrighted.[85] Looking at Brahma's face, she stood with joined hands.From desire of doing good to creatures, she did not set her heart upontheir destruction. The divine Brahma also, that Lord of the lord of allcreatures, remained silent. And soon the Grandsire became gratified inhis own self. And casting his eyes upon all the creation he smiled. And,thereupon, creatures continued to live as before i.e., unaffected bypremature death. And upon that invincible and illustrious Lord havingshaken off his wrath, that damsel left the presence of that wise Deity.Leaving Brahma, without having agreed to destroy creatures, the damselcalled Death speedily proceeded to the retreat called Dhenuka. Arrivedthere, she practised excellent and highly austere vows. And she stoodthere on one leg for sixteen billions of years, and five times tenbillions also, through pity for living creatures and from desire of doingthem good, and all the time restraining her senses from their favouriteobjects. And once again, O king she stood there on one leg for one andtwenty times ten billions of years. And then she wandered for ten timesten thousand billions of years with the creatures (of the earth). Next,repairing to the sacred Nanda that was full of cool and pure water, shepassed in those waters eight thousand years. Observing rigid vows atNanda, she cleansed herself of all her sins. Then she proceeded, first ofall, to the sacred Kausiki, observant of vow. Living upon air and wateronly, she practised austerities there. Repairing then to Panchaganga andnext to Vetasa, that cleansed damsel, by diverse kinds of especialausterities, emaciated her own body. Going next to the Ganga and thenceto the great Meru, she remained motionless like a stone, suspending herlife-breath. Thence going to the top of Himavat, where the gods hadperformed their sacrifice (in days of yore), that amiable and auspiciousgirl remained for a billion of years standing on the toe only of herfeet. Wending then to Pushkara, and Gokarna, and Naimisha, and Malaya,she emaciated her body, practising austerities agreeable to her heart.Without acknowledging any other god, with steady devotion to theGrandsire, she lived and gratified the Grandsire in every way. Then theunchangeable Creator of the worlds, gratified, said unto her, with asoftened and delighted heart, "O Death, why dost thou undergo asceticausterities so severe?" Thus addressed, Death said unto the divineGrandsire, "Creatures, O Lord, are living in health. They do not injureone another even by words. I shall not be able to slay them. O Lord, Idesire even this boon at thy hands. I fear sin, and it is for this that Iam engaged in ascetic austerities. O blessed one, undertake to remove forever my fears. I am a woman, in distress, and without fault. I beg thee,be thou protector." Unto her the divine Brahman acquainted with the past,the present and the future, said, "Thou shalt commit no sin, O Death, byslaying these creatures. My words can never be futile, O amiable one!Therefore, O auspicious damsel, slay these creatures of four kinds.Eternal virtue shall always be thine. That Regent of the world, viz.,Yama, and the diverse disease shall become thy helpmates. I myself andall the gods will grant thee boons, so that, freed from sin and perfectlycleansed, thou mayst even acquire glory." Thus addressed, O monarch, thatlady, joining her hands, once more said these words, seeking her grace bybowing down unto him with her head. "If, O Lord, this is not to be withoutme, then thy command I place upon my head. Listen, however, to what Isay. Let covetousness, wrath, malice, jealousy, quarrel, folly andshamelessness, and other stern passions tear the bodies of all embodiedcreatures.""'"'Brahman said, "It will be, O Death, as thou sayest. Meanwhile, slaycreatures duly. Sin shall not be thine, nor shall I seek to injure thee,O auspicious one. Those tear-drops of thine that are in my hands, eventhey will become diseases, springing from living creatures themselves.They will kill men; and if men are killed, sin shall not be thine.Therefore, do not fear. Indeed, sin shall not be thine. Devoted torighteousness, and observant of thy duty, thou shalt slay (allcreatures). Therefore, take thou always the lives of these livingcreatures. Casting off both desire and wrath, take thou the life of allliving creatures. Even thus will eternal virtue be thine. Sin will slaythose that are of wicked behaviour. By doing my bidding cleanse thyself.It will be thine to sink them in their sins that are wicked. Therefore,cast off both desire and wrath, and kill these creatures endued withlife."'"'"Narada continued, 'That damsel, seeing that she was (persistently)called by the name of Death, feared (to act otherwise). And in terroralso of Brahma's curse, she said, "Yes!" Unable to do otherwise, shebegan, casting off desire and wrath, to take the lives of livingcreatures when the time came (for their dissolution). It is only livingcreatures that die. Diseases spring from living creatures themselves.Disease is the abnormal condition of creatures. They are pained by it.Therefore, indulge not in fruitless grief for creatures after they aredead. The senses, upon the death of creatures, go with the latter (to theother world), and achieving their (respective) functions, once more comeback (with creatures when the latter are reborn). Thus all creatures, Olion among beings, the very gods included, going thither, have to act,like mortals.[86] The wind, that is awful, of terrible roars and greatstrength, omnipresent and endued with infinite energy, it is the windthat will rive the bodies of living creatures. It will, in this matterput forth no active energy, nor will it suspend its functions; (but dothis naturally). Even all the gods have the appellation of mortalsattached to them. Therefore, O lion among kings, do not grieve for thyson! Repairing to heaven, the son of thy body is passing his days inperpetual happiness, having obtained those delightful regions that arefor heroes. Casting off all sorrows, he hath attained to thecompanionship of the righteous. Death hath been ordained by the Creatorhimself for all creatures! When their hour comes, creatures are destroyedduly. The death of creatures arises from the creatures themselves.Creatures kill themselves. Death doth not kill any one, armed with herbludgeon! Therefore, they that are wise, truly knowing death to beinevitable, because ordained by Brahma himself, never grieve forcreatures that are dead. Knowing this death to be ordained by the SupremeGod, cast off, without delay, thy grief for thy dead son!'""'Vyasa continued, "Hearing these words of grave import spoken by Narada,king Akampana, addressing his friend, said, 'O illustrious one, Oforemost of Rishi, my grief is gone, and I am contented. Hearing thishistory from thee, I am grateful to thee and I worship thee.' Thatforemost of superior Rishi, that celestial ascetic of immeasurable soul,thus addressed by the king, proceeded to the woods of Nandava. Thefrequent recital of this history for the hearing of others, as also thefrequent hearing of this history, is regarded as cleansing, leading tofame and heaven and worthy of approbation. It enhanceth besides, theperiod of life. Having listened to this instructive story, cast off thygrief, O Yudhishthira, reflecting besides on the duties of a Kshatriyaand the high state (of blessedness) attainable by heroes. Abhimanyu, thatmighty car-warrior, endued with mighty energy, having slain (numerous)foes before the gaze of all bowmen, hath attained to heaven. The greatbowman, that mighty car-warrior, struggling on the field, hath fallen inthe battle struck with sword and mace and dart and bow. Sprung fromSoma, he hath disappeared in the lunar essence, cleansed of all hisimpurities. Therefore, O son of Pandu, mustering all thy fortitude,thyself with thy brothers, without allowing your senses to be stupefiedspeedily set out, inflamed with rage, for battle."'"[87]SECTION LIII"Sanjaya said, 'Hearing of the origin of Death and her strange acts, kingYudhishthira, humbly addressing Vyasa, once more said these words untohim.'"'Yudhishthira said, "Many kings there were in blessed countries, ofrighteous deeds and of prowess equal to that of Indra himself. They wereroyal sages, O regenerate one, that were sinless and truth-speaking. Oncemore, address me in words of grave import, and console me with (accountsof) the feats of those royal sages of ancient times. What was the measureof the sacrificial gifts made by them? Who were those high-souled royalsages of righteous deeds that made them? Tell me all this, O illustriousone!""'Vyasa said, "There was a king of the name of Switya. He had a son whowas called Srinjaya. The Rishis Narada and Parvata were his friends. Oneday, the two ascetics, for paying Srinjaya a visit, came to his palace.Duly worshipped by Srinjaya, they became pleased with him, and continuedto live with him happily. Once on a time as Srinjaya was seated at hiscase with the two ascetics, his beautiful daughter of sweet smiles cameto him. Saluted with reverence by his daughter, Srinjaya delighted thatgirl standing by his side with proper benedictions of the kind shedesired. Beholding that maiden, Parvata smilingly asked Srinjaya, saying,'Whose daughter is this damsel of restless glances and possessed of everyauspicious mark? Is she the splendour of Surya, or the flame of Agni? Or,is she any of these, viz., Sri, Hri, Kirti, Dhriti, Pushti, Siddhi, andthe splendour of Soma?' After the celestial Rishi (Parvata) said thesewords, king Srinjaya answered, saying, 'O illustrious one, this girl ismy daughter. She beggeth my blessings.' Then Narada addressed kingSrinjaya and said. 'If, O monarch, thou wishest for great good (tothyself), then give this daughter of thine unto me for a wife.' Delighted(with the Rishi's proposal), Srinjaya addressed Narada, saying, 'I giveher unto thee.' At this, the other Rishi, viz., Parvata, indignantlyaddressed Narada, saying, 'Chosen before this by me, within my heart,thou hast taken this damsel as thy wife. And since thou hast done this,thou, O Brahmana, shalt not go to heaven as thy will.' Thus addressed byhim, Narada answered him, saying, 'The husband's heart and speech(directed thereto), (the giver's) consent, the speeches (of both), theactual gift made by sprinkling water, and the (recital of the mantras)ordained for the seizure of the (bride's hand),--these have been declaredto be indications by which one is constituted a husband. Even thisceremonial is not all. That which (above all) is essential is the walkfor seven paces (by the bride in circumambulating the bridegroom).[88]Without these thy purpose (about marriage) have been unaccomplished. Thouhast cursed. Therefore, thou also shalt not go to heaven without me.'Having cursed each other those two Rishis continued to live there.Meanwhile, king Srinjaya, desirous of (obtaining) a son, began, withcleansed soul, to carefully entertain the Brahmanas, to the utmost of hispower, with food and robes. After a certain time, those foremost ofBrahmanas devoted to the study of the Vedas and fully conversant withthose scriptures and their branches became gratified with that monarch,desirous of getting a son. Together they came to Narada and said untohim, 'Give this king a son of the kind he desires.'--Thus addressed bythe Brahmanas, Narada replied unto them, saying, 'So be it.'--and thenthe celestial Rishi addressed Srinjaya saying, 'O royal sage, theBrahmanas have been pleased and they wish thee a son! Solicit thou theboon, blessed be thou, about the kind of son thou desirest.' Thusaddressed by him, the king, with joined hands, asked for a son possessedof every accomplishment, famous, of glorious feats, of great energy, andcapable of chastising all foes. And he further asked that the urine, theexcreta, the phlegm and the sweat of that child should be gold. And indue time the king had a son born unto him, who came to be namedSuvarnashthivin[89] on earth. And in consequence of the boon, that childbegan to increase (his father's) wealth beyond all limits. And kingSrinjaya caused all desirable things of his to be made of gold. And hishouses and walls and forts, and the houses of all Brahmanas (within hisdominions), and his beds, vehicles, and plates, and all manners of potsand cups, and palace that he owned, and all implements and utensils,domestic and otherwise were made of gold. And in time his stockincreased. Then certain robbers hearing of the prince and seeing him tobe such, assembled together and sought to injure the king. And someamongst them said, 'We will seize the king's son himself. He is hisfather's mine of gold. Towards that end, therefore, we should strive.'Then those robbers inspired with avarice, penetrating into the king'spalace, forcibly took away prince Suvarnashthivin. Having seized andtaken him to the woods, those senseless idiots, inspired with avarice butignorant of what to do with him, slew him there and cut his body infragments. They saw not, however, any gold in him. After the prince wasslain, all the gold, obtained in consequence of the Rishi's boon,disappeared. The ignorant and senseless robbers struck one another. Andstriking one another thus, they perished and with them that wonderfulprince on the earth. And those men of wicked deeds sank in anunimaginable and awful hell. Seeing that son of his, obtained through theRishi's boon thus slain, that great ascetic, viz., king Srinjaya,afflicted with deep sorrow, began to lament in piteous accents. Beholdingthe king afflicted with grief on account of his son, and thus weeping,the celestial Rishi Narada showed himself in his presence. Listen, OYudhishthira, to what Narada said unto Srinjaya, having approached thatking, who afflicted with grief and deprived of his senses, was indulgingin piteous lamentations. Narada said, 'Srinjaya, with thy desiresunfulfilled, thou shalt have to die, although we utterers of Brahma, livein thy house. Avikshit's son Marutta even, O Srinjaya, we hear, had todie. Piqued with Vrihaspati, he had caused Samvatta[90] himself toofficiate at his great sacrifices! Unto that royal sage the illustriouslord (Mahadeva) himself had given wealth in the shape of a golden plateauof Himavat. (With that wealth) king Marutta had performed diversesacrifices. Unto him, after the completion of his sacrifices diversetribes of celestials, those creators of the universe, with Indra himselfin their company and with Vrihaspati at their head, used to come. All thecarpets and furnitures of his sacrificial compound were of gold. Theregenerate classes, desirous of food, all ate as they pleased, at hissacrifices, food that was clean and agreeable to their desires. And inall his sacrifices, milk and curds and clarified butter and honey, andother kinds of food and edibles, all of the best order, and robes andornaments covetable for their costliness, gratified Brahmanas, thoroughlyconversant with the Vedas. The very gods used to become distributors offood in king Marutta's palace. The Viswedevas were the courtiers of thatroyal sage, the son of Avikshit. By him were gratified the denizens ofheaven with libations of clarified butter. And gratified (therewith),these, in their turn, increased that powerful ruler's wealth of cropswith copious showers of rain. He always contributed to the gratificationof the Rishis, the Pitris, and the gods, and thereby made them happy, bypractising Brahmacharya, study of the Vedas, obsequial rites, and allkinds of gifts. And his beds and carpets and vehicles, and his vaststores of gold difficult to be given away, in fact, all that untoldwealth of his, was given away voluntarily unto the Brahmanas. Sakrahimself used to wish him well. His subjects were made happy (by him).Acting always with piety, he (ultimately) repaired to those eternalregions of bliss, acquired by his religious merit. With his children andcounsellors and wives and descendants and kinsmen, king Marutta, in hisyouth, ruled his kingdom for a thousand years. When such a king, OSrinjaya, died who was superior to thee, in respect of the four cardinalvirtues (viz., ascetic penances, truth, compassion, and liberality), andwho, superior to thee, was much superior to thy son, do not grieve saying"O Swaitya," for thy son who performed no sacrifice and gave nosacrificial present.'SECTION LVI"'"Narada said, 'King Suhotra also, O Srinjaya, we hear, fell a prey todeath. He was the foremost of heroes, and invincible in battle. The verygods used to come for seeing him. Acquiring his kingdom virtuously, hesought the advice of his Ritwijas and domestic priests and Brahmanas forhis own good, and enquiring of them, used to obey their behests.Well-acquainted with the duty of protecting his subjects, possessed ofvirtue and liberality, performing sacrifices and subjugating foes, kingSuhotra wished for the increase of his wealth. He adored the gods byfollowing the ordinances of the scriptures, and defeated his foes bymeans of his arrows. He gratified all creatures by means of his ownexcellent accomplishments. He ruled the earth, freeing her from Mlecchasand the forest-thieves.[91] The deity of the clouds showered gold untohim from year's end to year's end. In those olden days, therefore, therivers (in his kingdom) ran (liquid) gold, and were open to everybody foruse.[92] The deity of the clouds showered on his kingdom large number ofalligators and crabs and fishes of diverse species and various objects ofdesire, countless in number, that were all made of gold. The artificiallakes in that king's dominions each measured full two miles. Beholdingthousands of dwarfs and humpbacks and alligators and Makaras, andtortoises all made of gold, king Suhotra wondered much. That unlimitedwealth of gold, the royal sage Suhotra performing a sacrifice atKurujangala, gave away unto the Brahmanas, before the completion of thesacrifice. Having performed a thousand Horse-sacrifices, a hundredRajasuyas, many sacred Kshatriya-sacrifices[93] in all of which he madeabundant presents to the Brahmanas and having performed daily rites,almost countless in number, undergone from specified desires, the kingultimately obtained a very desirable end. When, O Srinjaya, such a kingdied, who was superior to thee as regards the four cardinal virtues andwho, superior to thee, was therefore, much superior to thy son, thoushouldst not grieve saying, "Oh Swaitya, Oh, Swaitya," for thy sonperformed no sacrifice and made no sacrificial present.'"'"SECTION LVII"'"Narada said, 'The heroic king Paurava also, O Srinjaya, we hear, fell aprey to death. That king gave away a thousand times thousand horses thatwere all white in hue. At the Horse-sacrifice performed by that royalsage, countless number of learned Brahmanas versed in the principles ofSiksha[94] and Akshara come from diverse realms. These Brahmanas,purified by the Vedas, by knowledge, and by vows, and liberal and ofagreeable countenances, having obtained from the king costly gifts, suchas robes and houses and excellent beds and carpets and vehicles anddraft-cattle, were always delighted by actors and dancers and singers,thoroughly competent and well-versed (in their respective art), engagedin sport and ever-striving for their diversion. At each of his sacrificesin due time he gave away as sacrificial presents ten thousand elephantsof golden splendour, with the temporal juice trickling down their bodies,and cars made of gold with standards and banners. He also gave away, assacrificial presents, a thousand times thousand maidens decked withornaments of gold, and cars and steeds and elephants for mounting, andhouses and fields, and hundreds of kine, by hundreds of thousand, andthousands of cowherds decked with gold. They that are acquainted with thehistory of the past, sing this song, viz., that in that sacrifice, kingPaurava gave away kine with calves, having golden horns and silver hoofsand brass milkpots, and female slaves and male slaves and asses andcamels, and sheep, countless in number, and diverse kinds of gems anddiverse hill-like mounds of food. That sacrificing king of the Angassuccessively performed, in the order of their merit, and according towhat was competent for his own class, many auspicious sacrifices capableof yielding every object of desire. When such a king, O Srinjaya, diedwho was superior to thee as regards the four cardinal virtues and who,superior to thee was, therefore, much more superior to thy son, thoushouldst not, saying "Oh, Swaitya, Oh, Swaitya," grieve for thy son whoperformed no sacrifice and made no sacrificial present.'"'"SECTION LVIII"'"Narada said, 'Usinara's son, Sivi also, O Srinjaya, we hear, fell a preyto death. That king had, as it were, put a leathern girdle around theearth, making the earth with her mountains and islands and seas andforests resound with the clatter of his car. The vanquisher of foes,viz., king Sivi, always slew the foremost of foes. He performed manysacrifices with presents in profusion unto the Brahmanas. That monarch ofgreat prowess and great intelligence had acquired enormous wealth. Inbattle he won the applause of all Kshatriyas.[95] Having brought thewhole earth under subjection, he performed many Horse-sacrifices, withoutany obstruction, which were productive of great merit giving away (assacrificial present) a thousand crores of golden nishkas, and manyelephants and steeds and other kinds of animals, much grain, and manydeer and sheep. And king Sivi gave away the sacred earth consisting ofdiverse kinds of soil unto the Brahmanas. Indeed, Usinara's son, Sivi,gave away as many kine as the number of rain-drops showered on the earth,or the number of stars in the firmament, or the number of sand-grains onthe bed of Ganga, or the number of rocks that constitute the mountaincalled Meru, or the number of gems or of (aquatic) animals in the ocean.The Creator himself hath not met with and will not meet within the past,the present, or the future, another king capable of bearing the burdensthat king Sivi bore. Many were the sacrifices, with every kind of rites,that king Sivi performed. In those sacrifices, the stakes, the carpets,the houses, the walls, and the arches, were all made of gold. Food anddrink, agreeable to the taste and perfectly clean were kept in profusion.And the Brahmanas that repaired to them could be counted by myriads andmyriads. Abounding with viands of every description, nothing butagreeable words such as give away and take were heard there. Milk andcurds were collected in large lakes. In his sacrificial compound, therewere rivers of drink and white hills of food. "Bathe, and drink and eatas ye like," these were the only words heard there. Gratified with hisrighteous deeds, Rudra granted Sivi a boon, saying, "As thou givest away,let thy wealth, thy devotion,--thy fame, thy religious acts, the lovethat all creatures bear thee, and the heaven (thou attain), be allinexhaustible." Having obtained all these desirable boons, even Sivi,when the time came, left this world for heaven. When, O Srinjaya, he diedwho was superior to thee, was much superior to thy son, thou shouldstnot, saying, "Oh, Swaitya, Oh, Swaitya", grieve for thy son who performedno sacrifice and made no sacrificial present.'"'"SECTION LIX"'"Narada said, 'Rama, the son of Dasaratha, O Srinjaya, we hear, fell aprey to death. His subjects were as much delighted with him, as a sire isdelighted with the children of his loins. Endued with immeasurableenergy, countl