ing our Pinace fell ongrounde vpon the coast of Iaua, not far from Pannorocan, where she shotteoff three peeces, at the which warning wee made thither with our boates,and by the helpe of God got her off againe: There we saw a high hil thatburnt, vnder and aboue the fire hauing a great smoake, most strange tobehold.The 18. of Ianuary we entered into the straight that runneth betweene Iauaand Baly, and by reason of the hard and contrary streame that ran therin,we were forced to anker vpon the coast of Iaua, where wee found good ankerground.The 19. wee set sayle, and when wee came neere to the coast of Baly, weentered into a rough streame, and our shippes draue backeward, as swiftlyas an arrow out of a bow, and there we found no anker ground, nor any ankercould haue holden vs, but Molenaer got the coast of Iaua and ankered, whichin the ende wee likewise did, and ankered at the least three miles fromhim, and so much we had driuen backe in the space of halfe an houre.The 20. of Ianuarie wee went and lay by our other ships.The 21. of Ianuarie there came two barkes to the Mauritius, wherein therewas one that coulde speake good Portingall, who tolde vs that the towne ofBallaboam was besieged by a strange King, that had marryed the King ofBallaboams daughter, and after he had laine with her he caused her to beeslaine, and then came to besiege her father. This towne of Ballaboam lyethon the East end of the Island of Iaua, and is the same towne where M.Candish was when hee passed that way, and the old King wherof he writethwas as then yet liuing, being at the least 160. years of age. There we sawgreat numbers of Battes, that flew ouer our shippes, and were as bigge asCrowes, which in that Countrey they vse to eat, as they say: About noone wecame before the towne of Ballaboam, so neare vnto it, that we might easilysee it, and there we lay behind a high point of lande, thinking to take inwater.The 22. of Ianuarie we tooke our Pinace, and sayled about the shore asneere the land as possible we might, to seeke for fresh water, but we foundnone, for the Riuer that ran through the towne was paled vp (by them thatlay before it) so that no man might passe either out or in, but onely onthe lande side, and that with great daunger: The same day there came 2. or3. men abord our shippe, that stole out of the towne by night, and camefrom the King, to desire our help with our great shot, which wee could notdoe; because that thereabouts it was very shallow, and we might not goneere it with our shippes; they tolde vs they had great want of victuaileswithin the towne, whereby many of them were already deade for hunger, andmuch desired our aide, but it was not in vs to doe. Those that besieged thetowne were Mores, but they in the towne were heathens, and as yet had notreceyued Mahomets lawe and that (as wee heard after) was the cause of theirwarre: There wee sawe many Storkes flying and sitting in the fielde: withvs we cannot imagine where the Storkes remaine in winter time, but here weesawe them in the winter time.The 24. of Ianuarie we sayled from thence, perceyuing nothing for vs toget, and tooke our course right ouer to the Island of Bally.The 25. we came to Bally, where one of their barks borded vs, telling vsthat there we should find a Riuer of fresh water, and of all thinges elssufficient to serue our necessities, wherevpon we ankered.The 26. of Ianuarie our Pinace sent her boat to land, to see the Riuer, andthere one of our men was sent on shore, but when he was on land he foundnothing, but an armie of ten thousand men, that ment to relieue the towneof Ballaboam, and the Riuer was nothing worth to lade water, wherevpon ourmen came on borde againe: Their Generall thought to haue gotten some greatpray out of our shippes.The 27. of Ianuarie we set sayle to finde a conuenient place to refresh vswith water and other prouision, for wee were informed by a man of Bengala,that of his owne will sayled with vs, and that had beene in Bally, thatthere wee should finde water and other thinges to serue our necessities, sothat by night wee ankered vnder a high pointe of lande on the South Westende of Bally.The 28. of Ianuarie one of their boates borded vs with sixe or seuen men,saying that their King was desirious to deale with vs for such wares as heehad, and sent to know from whence we came, and we said wee came out ofHolland.The 29. and 30. there came more men aborde our shippes, but as weesuspected that was not the right hauen, for the people came rowing in greathaste a far off, and the man of Bengala could not tell what to say, but theKing was thereabout, and euery day sent vs some fruit.The first of February wee had two hogges brought aborde our shippes, thatwee bought for two Ryalles of eyght, and we eate them very sauerly.The 2. of Februarie, we set saile that wee might get aboue the point, wherewee thought to finde a better place for freshe water, but by reason thewinde was contrary, wee could not doe it, but were forced to anker againe.The 3. of February we set saile againe, and then wee had a storme, so thatour saile blew euery way, and because of the contrarie winde we could notreach aboue the point, but were constrained to anker, but the Mauritius andthe Pinace got past it, although thereby the Mauritius was in no littledaunger, but because the Pilot had laid a wager of 6. Rialles of 8. thathee woulde get aboue it, hee would passe, what daunger soeuer it might be,and sayled close along by the cliffes, whereby wee lay at anker withoutcompanie.The 4 and 5. we set saile once againe to get aboue the point but could notreach it.The 6. we had a letter from Rodenburgh, that certified vs how the Mauritiuslay at anker at the least 7. or 8. miles beyond the point, and he thatbrought the letter came with it ouer land; and at the same time there was aman sent on lande with a small present for the King, that we might winnehis fauour.The 7. our man came on borde againe, and brought vs newes how Rodenburghwith one of the Portingalles slaues, being on lande were against theirwilles led before the King, but the saylors of the Mauritius had gotten menfor pledges.The 8. of Ianuarie, the same man went on land out of our shippe with morepresentes of veluet and a caliuer, the better to get the Kinges fauour,which liked him well, and desired vs to bring the ship nearer to the towne,saying he would send vs water, and other things sufficient to supply ourwants.The 9. we sayled into the cheeke with our shippe, and ankered about a smallhalfe mile from the land, and being ankered there came at the least 70.boates of the Countrey to see our ship, and the King sent vs word that heewas desirous to heare vs shoote off 5. or 6. of our great peeces, and theKing stoode vppon the shore to see them.The 10. we had a letter from Cornelis Houtman, to wil vs to come to them,for that there they had founde a good place for water, and all othernecessaries, so that about euening wee set sayle, leauing two of our menand a Portingall slaue among the Indians, whome the King promised shouldcome vnto vs ouer land, yet that night wee could not reach aboue the point,meane time we perceyued our Pinace that came to helpe vs.The 16. we got by the Mauritius, that had already laden in her water, andhooped her vessels, wherevpon we began presently to do the like, and tovisite our vessels that were almost spoyled.The 17. our men whome wee left with the King came ouer land vnto ourshippes, and then we bought great store of cattle and fruit.The 18. 19. 20. and 21. wee imployed our time to lade water, which wee hadverie easily, and refreshed our selues with Cattle, Hogges, fruit, andLemons sufficient. There came one of the Kinges principall officers withour men ouer land, to pleasure vs in all things we desired, he was verydesirous to haue some present of vs.[Sidenote: Two of our men stayed with the Indians.] The 24. of Ianuarie twoof our men that sayled in the Mauritius stayed on lande, but wee knewe notthe cause: it should seeme some great promises had beene made vnto them,for as we vnderstoode the King was very desirous to haue all sortes ofstrange nations about him, but our people were therein much ouerseene, forthere they liued among heathens, that neyther knewe God nor hiscommandements, it appeared that their youthes and wilde heades did notremember it, one of their names was Emanuel Rodenburgh of Amsterdam, theother Iacob Cuyper of Delft: within a day or two they sent vnto vs fortheir clothes, but wee sent them not.The 23. 24. and 25. we made a voyage on land, and fetcht as many Hoggesabord our shippes as we could eate.The 25. of Februarie we hoysed ankers, minding to set saile and so gohomeward, leauing our two men aforesaid on land, but because it was calmeweather we ankered, and went once againe on lande, and the 26. of the sameMonth wee set saile and helde our course West South West, but we had acalme.The situation of the Island of BalyThe Island of Baly lying at the East end of Iaua, is a verie fruitfullIslande of Ryce, Hennes, Hogges, that are very good, and great store ofcattle: but they are very drie and leane beastes. They haue many horses:the inhabitants are heathens, and haue no religion, for some pray to Kine,others to the Sunne, and euerie man as hee thinketh good. [Sidenote: How 50women burnt them selues with one man.] When a man dyeth his wife burnethher selfe with him: there were some of their men aborde our shippes, thattold vs, that when some man dyeth in that Countrey, that sometimes thereare at the least fifty women that will burne themselues with him, and shethat doth not so is accounted for a dishonest woman: so that it is a commonthing with them: The apparel both of men and women is for the most partlike those of Bantam, nothing but a cloth about their middles: Theirweapons is, each man a poinyarde at their backes, and a trunke with an ironpoint like a speare, about a fadom and a halfe long, out of the which theyblowe certaine arrowes, whereof they haue a case full; it is an euil weaponfor naked men: they are enemies to the Mores and Portingalles. This Ilandyeeldeth no spice, nor any other costly ware, onely victuailes and clotheswhich they weare about their bodies, and slaues that are there to be solde.The King went with more state then the King of Bantam: all his garde hadpikes with heades of fine gold, and he sate in a wagon that that was drawenby two white Buffles.The first of March we had a calme.The third we got a good wind, that blew Southeast, holding our course WestSouth West.The fourteenth the wind blew stil South East, sometimes more Southwarde,and sometimes Eastward, being vnder 14. degrees, and a good sharpe gale,holding our course West Southwest: [Sidenote: The situation of Iaua.] Therewe found that Iaua is not so broade, nor stretcheth it selfe not so muchSouthwarde, as it is set downe in the Carde: for if it were, we should hauepassed clean through the middle of the land.The 22. of March the winde helde as it did, being vnder 19. degrees,holding our course West South West.The 19. of April our ship had no more bread left, but for our lastpartition euery man had seuen pound, both good and badde breade, and fromthat time forwarde our meate was Rice sodden in water, and euery man had acanne of water euery day, with three romers of wine, and weekely each manthree romers or glasses of oyle and that very strong, and nothing els.The 20. we had a calme, the 21. a calme with a Northerne aire.The 23. a good wind that blew Southwest.The 24. we saw the firme lande of AEthiopia, being vnder 33. degrees, and aswee gessed, wee were then about an hundred miles from the Cape de bonaSperance, yet we thought we had been at the least three hundred miles fromit, so that wee may say, that God wrought wonderfully for vs: for that ifwee had fallen by night vpon the land, we had surely runne vpon it: wee hada good winde out of the West, and West Southwest.The 25. of Aprill in the morning wee had a calme, with a very hollow water,and at euening we had a good winde, that came North and Northeast, andalthough wee had so good a wind yet our shippe bare but little sayle,although the other two shippes of our company were at the least two milebefore vs, for most part of the night wee sayled with our schouer saile,holding our course Southwest and by West.The 26. of Aprill in the morning we coulde not see our shippes, whichpleased not our men, besides that our shippe was very weake, whereby herribs shoke, and her ioynts with the force of the water opened and shut, sothat as then our shippe was very leake, hauing the winde Northwest, holdingour course as neere as wee could West Southwest, and then we put out ourmaine sayles, at noone the winde came West, with a great storme, so thatmost of our sayles blew in peeces, and so wee draue forward with outsayles.The 27. of Aprill still driuing without sayle with a West winde, wee werevnder thirty sixe degrees, so that we found that the streame draue vs Southand South West.The 28. of Aprill still driuing without sailes, we had the height of 36.degrees and 20. minutes, and about euening we hoised saile againe, thewinde being West Southwest, and we held our course Northwest with veryhollow water.The 29. of April we could not as yet see our shippes, the wind being West.The 30. of Aprill we had fayre weather with a West and West South Westwind, and then we saw many great birdes with white billes, which is a signenot to bee far from the Cape de bona Sperance, we likewise saw certainsmall birdes, speckled on their backes, and white vpon their breastes.The first of May wee had a South winde with fayre weather hauing 34 degreesand a halfe, holding our course West Southwest.The seconde of May wee were vnder 35. degrees, and 1/2. holding our courseWest and West and by North.The fourth of May we found our selues to be vnder 37. degrees South SouthEast winde, our course being West and by North, and West North West.The 5. and 6. of May we had all one winde at noone being vnder 35. degrees,wee thought wee had passed the Cape, and held our course Northwest,towardes Saint Helena, still without sight of our ships.The 8. of May with a South wind wee helde North West and by West.The 9. we had a calme with a gray sky, and were vnder 31. degrees andtwentie minutes, and then our portion of oyle was increased a glasse moreeuery weeke, so that euery man had foure glasses.The 10. we had stil South winds, and were vnder 29 deg.[Sidenote: Signes of the Cape de bona Speranza.] The 14. of May twice orthrice we saw reedes, called Trombos driuing on the water, being such asdriue about the the Cape de bona Speranza, which wee thought verie strange,for that the Portingals write, that they are seen but thirtie myles fromthe Cape, and wee gest our selues to be at the least 200. beyond it.The 15. we still had a South East wind, and helde our course Northwest.The 16. of May in the morning we saw two ships, whereat we much reioyced,thinking they had beene our companie, we made to leewarde of them, and thesmallest of them comming somewhat neere vs, about the length of the shotteof a great peece, shee made presently toward her fellow, whereby weperceiued them to bee Frenchmen, yet we kept to leeward, thinking theywould haue come and spoken with vs, but it should seeme they feared vs, anddurst not come, but held their course Northeast; at noone we had the heightof 22. degrees, and 50. minutes with a Southeast wind, holding our courseNorthwest.The 17. of May wee were vnder 21. degrees and a halfe: the 18. the windbeing Southerly, we were vnder 19. degrees and a halfe.The 19. and 20. we had a calme with a Southern aire.The 21. the ayre comming Southwest, we held our course Northwest: and werevnder 17. degrees and 2/3 partes: There we found the compasse to declinethree quarters of a strike or line North eastward, after noone we had aSoutheast wind, and our course West Northwest.The 22. of May we had still a Southeast winde, and were vnder the height of16. degrees and 40. minutes, holding our course West Northwest.The 23. of May, by reason of the cloudy sky, about noone we could not takethe height of the Sunne, but as we gest we had the height of the Island ofS. Helena, and held our course West and by South to keepe vnder thatheight, for there the compasses decline a whole strike or line: in theeuening we found that we were vnder 16. degrees.The 24. of May in the morning wee discouered a Portingall ship, that stayedfor vs, and put out a flagge of truce, and because our flagge of truce wasnot so readie as theirs, and we hauing the wind of him, therefore he shottwo shootes at vs, and put forth a flagge out of his maine top, and we shot5 or 6. times at him, and so held on our course without speaking to him,hauing a South East winde, holding our course West and by South to find theIsland of S. Helena, which the Portugal likewise sought.The 25. of May we discouered the Island of S. Helena, but we could not seethe Portingal ship, still sayling with a stiffe Southeast wind, and abouteuening we were vnder the Island, which is very high lande, and may beseene at the least 14. or 15. miles off, and as we sayled about the Northpoint, there lay three other great Portingal ships, we being not aboue halfa mile from them, wherevpon wee helde in the weather and to seawardeNortheast as much as we might. The Portingalles perceyuing vs, the Admiralof their fleet shot off a peece to call their men that were on land to comeaborde, [Sidenote: Foure Portingal ships richly laden.] and then wee sawfoure of their shippes together, that were worth a great summe of money, atthe least 300. tunnes of gold, for they were all laden with spices,precious stones, and other rich wares, and therefore wee durst not ankervnder the Island, but lay all night Northeastwarde, staying for ourcompany.The 26. of May in the morning wee made towardes the Island againe, with agood Southeast winde, and about noone or somewhat past we discried twoshippes, and about euening as we made towards them, we knew them to be ourcompany, which made vs to reioyce, for we had been asunder the space of awhole Month, and so we helde together and sayled homeward, holding ourcourse Northwest: for as yet our men were well and in good health, and wefound a good Southeast winde, and had water enough for foure or fiuemonthes.The 27. 28. 29. and 30. of May wee had a Southeast winde, with faireweather, and the 27. day we were vnder 14. degrees. The first of Iune wewere vnder 6. degrees, with a Southeast wind, holding our course NorthWest, but by means of the Compasse that yeelded North eastward, we keptabout Northwest and by North. The 6. of Iune wee were vnder one degree onthe South side of the line, there wee founde that the streame draue vs fastinto the West, and therefore wee helde our course more Northernely andsayled Northwest and by North, with an East and South East wind. [Sidenote:They passed the Equinoctiall line.] The 7. of Iune wee past theEquinoctiall line, with an East winde, holding our course North Northwest.The 10. of Iune in the euening we were vnder 5. degrees and a halfe on theNorth side of the line, and then we began again to see the North star,which for the space of 2. years we had not seene, holding our course NorthNorthwest, there we began to haue smal blasts, and some times calmes, butthe aire all South and South east.The 11. of Iune we had a calme, and yet a darke sky, that cameSoutheastwarde.The 12. of Iune wee had a close sky with raine, and the same euening ourfore top maste fell downe.The 13. we strake all our sailes and mended our ship.The 14. we had the wind Northward, holding our course West Northwest asneare as we coulde, but by reason of the thick sky wee could not takeheight of the Sun. The 15. of Iune we had the wind North, and NorthNorthwest.The 16. of Iune wee had the height of 9. degrees and 10. minutes, the windebeing Northeast and North Northeast. The 17. the winde was Northeast withfair weather, and we held Northwest, and Northwest and by North till afternoone. [Sidenote: They tooke a great fish.] The 15. we tooke a great fishcalled an Aluercour, which served vs all for 3. meals, which wee had nottasted of long time before.The 26. we had still a Northeast winde, and sometimes larger, holding ourcourse North Northwest with large saile, and were vnder 17. degrees and1/2.The same day there came much dust flying into our shippe, as if we had pasthard by some sandie towne, and we gest the nearest land to vs might be theIsland of S. Anthony, and wee were as then at the least 40. or 50. milesfrom it: The same day likewise there came a flying fish into our shippe,which we eat.The 28. of Iune wee had the height of 20. degrees, with a East Northeastwind and East and by West, with full sayle, there we saw much Sargosse,driuing on the water. The last of Iune we had the Sun right ouer ourheades, and yet we felt no heat, for that by reason of the cold ayre we hada fine coole weather. The same day we passed Tropicus Cancri, still hauingthe winde East Northeast, and in the euening we were vnder 24. degr.The second of Iuly we saw Sargosse driuing vpon the water, and had the windsomewhat lower North Northeast with a calme. The thirde of Iuly the windecame againe East Northeast, and wee helde our course North and by West. The8. of Iuly wee were vnder 33. degrees and 1/2. with an East wind, holdingour course North and by East, and yet we saw much Sargosse driuing, but notso thicke as it did before.The 10 of Iuly we had a good wind that blew south and South and by East,and hoysted vp our maine tops, that for the space of 26. daies were neuertouched, and held our course North Northeast, there we were in no littlefeare to fall among the Spanish fleet, which at that time of the yearekeepeth about the Flemmish Islands.The same day one of our boyes fell ouer bord, and was carried away with aswift streame before the wind, but to his great good fortune, the Pinacesaued him, that was at the least a quarter of a mile from vs: this eueningwe found the height of 36. degrees.The 12. of Iuly we had a Southwest wind, holding our course Northeast andby North: Our Pilot and the Pilot of the Pinnace differed a degree in theheight of the Sunne, for ours had 38. degrees, and theirs but 37. We gestto be about the Islands of Corbo and Flores, but the one held more easterlyand the other more Westerly. The 13. of Iuly wee had still a Southwestwinde, and after noone wee thought wee had seene land, but we were notassured thereof, for it was somewhat close. The 14. of Iuly we had a calme,and saw no land, and then our men began to be sicke.The 17. of Iuly wee had a South Southeast winde, with faire weather, andwere vnder 41. degrees, holding our course East Northeast.The 18. 19. 20. and 21. it was calme. The 22. of Iuly the winde came North,and wee held our course East Southeast. The 23. of Iuly the wind was NorthNorth East and Northeast, and we held as near as we could East and EastSoutheast, the same day our steward found a barrell of stockfish in theroming, which if we had beene at home we would haue cast it on the dunghil,it stunke so filthily, and yet we eat it as sauerly as the best meat in theworld.The 24. we had a West wind, and that with so strong a gale, that wee wereforced to set two men at helme, which pleased vs well.The 25. of Iuly we had a storme that blew West and West Northwest, so thatwe bare but two sailes, holding our course Northeast and by East.The first of August we were vnder 45. degrees with a North West wind,holding our course Northeast and by East.The second of August one of our men called Gerrit Cornelison of Spijckenesdied, being the first man that dyed in our voyage homeward.The 4. of August we had a Northwest wind.The 5. of August in the morning the winde came Southwest, and we were vnder47. degrees, holding our course Northeast and the North Northeast, and weegest that wee were not farre from the channell, those dayes aforesaid wehad so great colde in our shippes, as if had beene in the middle of winter:We could not be warme with all the clothes wee had. The same day we sawSargosse driue vpon the water.[Sidenote: They saw a shippe with the Prince of Oranges flagge.] The 6. ofAugust we had a West wind, in the morning we cast out our lead and foundgrounde at 80. fadome, and about noone we saw a shippe that bare thePrinces flagge, yet durst not come neare vs, although we made signes vntohim, and after noone wee saw the land of Heissant, whereat we all reioyced.The 7. of August in the morning we saw the land of Fraunce, and held ourcourse North Northeast, and likewise we saw a small shippe, but spake notwith it.The 8. of August in the morning we saw the Kiskas, and had a South wind andsomewhat West, holding our course East Northeast.[Sidenote: They saw a man of war.] The 9. of August we entered the heades,and past them with a Southwest wind, sayling Northeast. After noone we pastby a man of warre being a Hollander, that lay at anker, and he hoysed ankerto follow vs, about euening wee spake with him, but because of the wind weecould hardly heare what hee said, yet hee sailed on with vs.[Sidenote: The man of war gaue them victuailes.] The 10. of August the manof warre borded vs with his boat, and brought vs a barrell of beere, somebread and cheese, shewing vs what news he could touching the state ofHolland, and presently wee sawe the land of Holland, and because it blewvery stiffe and a great storme, after noone wee ankered about Petten tostay for better weather, and some new Pilots, and that was the first timewe had cast anker for the space of 5. monthes together, about euening itbeganne to blow so stifle, that wee lost both an anker and a cable.[Sidenote: They cut down their main mast.] The 11. of August we had still aSoutherly winde, and therefore about noone the Mauritius set saile, and weethought likewise to saile, but our men were so weake that we could nothoyse vp our anker, so that we were constrained to lie still till men cameout to helpe vs, about euening the winde came Southwest, and with so greata storme, that we thought to haue run vpon the strand, and were forced tocut downe our maine maste.The 12. and 13. we had a hard South West wind, and sometimes West, so thatno Pilots came abord our ship, but the 13. day about euening it began to befaire weather.The 14. of August about breake of day in the morning, there came two boatswith Pilots and men abord our ship, that were sent out by our owners, andbrought vs some fresh victuailes, which done they hoysed vp our ankers, andabout noone we sayled into the Tessel, and ankered in the channell, wherewe had fresh victuailes enough, for we were all weake.This was a great noueltie to all the Marchantes and inhabitantes ofHollande, for that wee went out from thence the second of April 1595. andreturned home again vpon the 14. of August 1597. there you might hauebought of the Pepper, Nutmegs, Cloues, and Mace, which wee brought with vs.Our saylors were most part sicke, being but 80. men in all, two thirdpartes of their company being dead, and lost by diuers accidentes, andamong those forescore such as were sicke, as soone as they were on land andat their ease presently recouered their healthes.The copper money of Iaua commeth also out of China, and is almost asthicke, great and heauy, as a quarter of a Doller, and somewhat thicker, inthe middle hauing a square hole, 2000. of them are worth a Riall of 8. butof these there are not ouer many, they vse to hang them vpon stringes, andpay them without telling, they stand not so narrowly vpon the number, forif they want but 25. or 50. it is nothing.The leaden money of Iaua, (being of bad Leade is very rough) hath in themiddle a foure square hole, they are hanged by two hundred vppon a string,they are commonly 10. 11. and 12. thousand to a Riall of 8. as therecommeth great quantitie out of China, where they are made, and so as thereis plentie or scarcitie they rise and fal.       *       *       *       *       *A true report of the gainefull, prosperous, and speedy voiage to Iaua in  the East Indies, performed by a fleete of 8. ships of Amsterdam: which  set forth from Texell in Holland the first of Maie 1598. Stilo Nouo.  Whereof foure returned againe the 19. of Iuly anno 1599. in lesse then  15. moneths; the other foure went forward from Iaua for the Moluccas.  [Footnote: At London: printed by P. S. for W. Aspley, and are to be sold  at the signe of the Tygers Head in Paules Church-yard, (1600).]Whereas in the yeare of our Lord 1595. a certaine company of substantialmerchants of Amsterdam in Holland did build and set forth for the EastIndies four well appointed shippes, whereof three came home An. 1597. withsmall profit (as already in sundry languages is declared) [Footnote: Seeabove.] Yet neuerthelesse the aforesaid company, in hope of bettersuccesse, made out the last years 1598. for a seconde voiage, a fleete ofeight gallant ships, to wit. The shippe called the Mauritius, latelyreturned from that former voyage, being of burden two hundreth and thirtylast, or foure hundreth and sixty tunnes, or thereabouts. This shippe wasAdmirall of the fleete. The master whereof was Godevart Iohnson, theCommissarie or factor Cornelius Heemskerck, and the Pilot Kees Collen.The second ship called the Amsterdam, was of the burden of four hundrethand sixty tuns. The Master's name was Claes Iohnson Melcknap; The factor orcommissarie Iacob Heemskerck.The third was named Hollandia, about the burden of sixe hundreth tuns:which had likewise been in the former voiage. The Master was SymonLambertson or Mawe, the Factor Master Witte Nijn, who died in the voyagebefore Bantam, and in his roome succeeded Iohn Iohnson Smith.The name of the fourth ship was Gelderland, of burden about foure hundrethtuns. Master wherof was Iohn Browne, factor or commissarie HansHendrickson.The fift was called Zeelandia, of the burden of three hundreth and sixtietuns. The Master was Iohn Cornelison, the Commissary or factor N. Brewer.The sixt ship named Utrecht of the burden of two hundreth and sixtie tuns.The Master was Iohn Martsen, the Factor or commissary Adrian Veen.The seuenth a pinnas called Frisland, of burden about seuenty tuns. TheMaster Iacob Cornelison, the Factor Walter Willekens.The eighth a pinnas that had been in the former voiage called the Pidgeon,now the Ouerijssel, of the burden of fifty tuns. The Master Symon Iohnson.The Factor Arent Hermanson.Of this fleete was General and Admirall Master Iacob Neck, ViceadmirallWybrand van Warwick: and Rereadmirall Iacob Heemskerck.With this fleet of eight ships we made saile from Texell the first of May1598. Stilo Nouo, being the 21. of Aprill, after the account of England andsailed with good speed vnto the Cabo de bona Speranza: as further shalappeare by a Iournal annexed vnto the end of this discourse.Being past the Cape, the 7. and 8. of August, by a storme of weather fiueships were separated from the Admirall, who afterwardes came togetheragaine before Bantam.[Sidenote: They meete with a ship of Zealand.] The 26. of August with threeshippes wee came within the view of Madagascar, and the 29. wee met with aship of Zeeland, called the Long barke, which had put to sea before vs, andnow kept aloofe from us, supposing we were enemies: but at lengthperceiuing by our flagges what we were, they sent their Pinnas aboord vs,reioycing greatly to haue met with vs, because that diuers of their menwere sicke, and ten were already dead: and they had in all but seuen menaboord the shippe that were meat-whole, and eleuen mariners to guide theshippe. Wee agreed to relieue them with some supplie of men: but throughdarkenesse and great winde wee lost them againe.[Sidenote: The Isle of Santa Maria.] After this, we the Admiral Mauritius,the Hollandia, and the pinnas Ouerijssel keeping together, came to theIsland of Santa Maria, before the great bay of Antogil in Madagascar: wherewee got a small quantity of Rice. We tooke the King prisoner, who paide forhis ransome a Cow and a fat calfe.In this Island we found no great commodity: for being the month ofSeptember, the season was not for any fruits: the Oranges had but flowers:Lemons were scant: of Sugarcanes and Hens there was some store, but theInhabitants were not very forward in bringing them out.[Sidenote: Killing of the whale.] Heere we sawe the hunting of the Whale,(a strange pastime) certaine Indians in a Canoa, or boate following a greatWhale, and with a harping Iron, which they cast forth, piercing the whalsbody, which yron was fastned to a long rope made of the barkes of trees,and so tied fast to their Canoa. All this while pricking and wounding thewhale so much as they could, they made him furiously to striue too and fro,swiftly swimming in the sea, plucking the canoa after him: sometimestossing it vp and downe, as lightly as if it had been a strawe. The Indiansin the meane time being cunning swimmers taking small care though they werecast ouerboord, tooke fast hold by the boat stil, and so after somecontinuance of this sport, the whale wearied and waxing faint, and stainingthe sea red with his bloud, they haled him toward the shore, and when theyhad gotten him so neare shore on the shallowe that the most part of himappeared aboue water, they drew him aland and hewed him in pieces, eueryone taking thereof what pleased them, which was to vs a strange sight. Itis reported that the Indians of Terra Florida vse the like fishing for theWhale. Our men might haue taken some part thereof, but refused it: thepieces thereof were so like larde or fat bacon.[Sidenote: The Bay of Antogill.] From thence we made toward the great Bayof Antogill and ankered vnder the Island, where wee tooke in fresh water.Our Indians that were brought from thence by them of the former voiage (thenames of whome were Madagascar the one, and the other Laurence) wee offeredto set there on land, but they refused, chusing rather to tarry with vs andto be apparelled, then to go naked in their owne countrey: working andmoyling for a miserable liuing, opposing their bare skins to the vehemencyof the sunne and weather: and their excuse was, that in that place theywere strangers and had none acquaintance.[Sidenote: How long their beere continued good.] Our beere continued goodvntill we were passed the Cape de bona speranza: from thence we began tomingle it with water hauing a portion of wine allowed vs twise a day, andthis allowance continued vntill our returne into Holland.We went with our boates vp the riuer seeking refreshing: but theInhabitants gaue vs to vnderstand by signes that wee might returne, forthere was nothing to be had. Wee rowed into the riuer about three leagues,and found their report to bee true. The cause was, that the Kings madewarre there one against an other, and so all the victuals were in mannerdestroied, insomuch that the Inhabitants themselues many of them perishedfor hunger, and in one of these battailes one of their Kings was latelyslaine. Wherfore after fiue daies abode and no longer, we departed, and inGods name made to sea again, directing our course the sixteenth ofSeptember for Iaua. [Sidenote: They arriue at Bantam.] About the nineteenthof Nouember we came within sight of Sumatra, and the 26. of the same moneth1598. wee in the three shippes aforesaid, to wit, the Mauritius, ourAdmirall, the Hollandia, and the Ouerissell, arriued before the citty ofBantam in Iaua. Presently vpon this our arriuall, our Admirall and GenerallMaster Iacob Van Neck, sought with all friendship to traffique with thepeople of the saide towne of Bantam, sending Master Cornelis Heemskerck onland to shew them what we were, for they thought vs to be the very same menthat had been there the yeare before, and al that while guarded the seacost, as being assuredly persuaded that we were pirates and sea rouers.[Sidenote: They present their letters and gifts.] But we, to make themvnderstand the contrary, sent on lande one Abdoll of China, a captiue oftheirs, whom we brought from them in our first voyage; by whose meanes wegot audience and credite: and so we presented our gifts and presents to theKing, which was but a childe: and the chiefe gouernour called Cephat,hauing the kingly authority, most thankfully receiued the same in the nameof his King. The said presents were a faire couered cup of siluer and gilt,certaine veluets and clothes of silke, with very fine drinking glasses andexcellent looking glasses, and such other gifts more. Likewise we presentedour letters sealed very costly with the great seale of the noble and mightylords the Estates generall of the united Prouinces, and of Prince Mauritz,whome they termed their Prince. [Sidenote: Trade licensed.] Which letterswere by them receiued with great reuerence, creeping vpon their knees: and(the same being well perused, read and examined) they found thereby ourhonest intent and determination for traffike: insomuch that a mutuallleague of friendship and alliance was concluded, and we were freelylicensed to trade and traffike in such wise, that euen the fourth day ofour arriuall we began to lade; and within foure or fiue weekes all ourfoure ships hauing taken in their full fraight, were ready to depart.When our three shippes aforesaid had remained there welnigh a moneth, aboutNewyears-tide arriued the other fiue shippes of our company beforementioned in very good manner, and well conditioned. [Sidenote: The wholefleet meet before Bantam.] And so our whole fleete of eight ships ioyfullymet together, and had none or very fewe sicke persons among them, hauinglost by death in the whole fleete but 35. men in all, of which number someperished through their own negligence. Vpon this happy meeting we displaiedour flags, streamers and ensignes after the brauest manner, honouring andgreeting one another with volleis of shot, making good cheere, and (whichwas no small matter) growing more deeply in fauour with the townesmen ofBantam. Vnto vs were daily brought aboord in Prauwes or Indian boats greatquantity of hens, egs, Cocos, bonanos, sugar-canes, cakes, made of rice,and a certaine kinde of good drinke which is there made by the men ofChina. Thus the people daily bartered with vs for pewter and other wares,giuing so much victuals for a pewter spoone, as might well suffice one manfor an whole weeke. Wee trucked likewise for diuers other things, as forporcellan dishes and such like. [Sidenote: The price of pepper inhanced.]Howbeit, that which our Indian Abdoll declared (namely, that more shipswere comming besides the three aforesaid, and that others beside them werealso sent out of Zeland) little tended to our commodity: for thereupon theIauans tooke occasion to inhance the price of their pepper, insomuch thatwe were forced to pay for 55. pounds of pepper first three, and afterwardfour Reals of eight: neither did they demaund or call for any thing so muchas for the said Reals of eight. Mercery or haberdashers wares were in nosuch request as money. Also we much marueiled, how the Iauans should tellvs of more shippes to come, making signes with their foure fingers andthumb, that foure Lyma (which word in their language signifieth shippes)were comming.And here you are to vnderstand, that our Generall Master Van Neck, togetherwith the commissaries or factors, thought good, besides the three forsaidships that came first, to lade one other, to wit, the greater pinnassecalled Frisland, whereof was Master Iacob Cornelison, and factor WalterWillekens. [Sidenote: Foure ships laden.] These foure ships hauing receiuedtheir ful freight, and giuen notice on land of their departure (to the endthat none of their creditours might bee vnpaid) and also having wellprouided themselues of rice and water, departed the thirteenth of Ianuary1599. and sayled to Sumatra, where they tooke in fresh water; for that thewater of Bantam first waxeth white, and afterward crawleth full of magots.Vpon the land of Sumatra we bartered kniues, spoones, looking-glasses,bels, needles and such like, for sundry fruits, to wit, melons, cucumbers,onions, garlike, and pepper though little in quantity, yet exceeding good.We had to deale with a notable Merchant of Bantam, named Sasemolonke, whosefather was a Castilian, which sold vs not much lesse then an hundreth lastof pepper. He was most desirous to haue traueiled with vs into Holland: butmisdoubting the displeasure and euil will of the king, and fearing leasthis goods might haue bin confiscated, he durst not aduenture vpon thevoiage.[Sidenote: The four other ships sent to Moluccas.] Certaine daies beforeour departure from Bantam were the other foure shippes dispatched to go forthe Moluccas, and ouer them was appointed as Admirall and Generall MasterWybrant van Warwicke in the shippe called Amsterdam, and Iacob HeemskerckViceadmirall in the shippe Gelderland, the other two shippes in consortwith them being Zeland and Vtrecht before mentioned.These foure made saile towards the Moluccas, and parted from vs the 8. ofIanuary in the night, and in taking of our leaues both of vs together, madesuch a terrible thundering noise with our ordinance, that the townsemenwere vp in alarme, vntill they knewe the reason thereof. The people wereglad of their departure, hauing some mistrust of vs, remaining there sostrong with 8. ships. And they asked daily when we should depart, makinggreat speed to help vs vnto our lading, and shewing themselues mostseruiceable vnto vs.The 11. of Ianuary 1599. we in the foure shippes laden with pepper departedfrom Bantam homeward. The 13. we arriued at Sumatra. The 19. we shaped ourcourse directly for Holland. The 3. of April we had sight of Capo de buonaesperanza. The 8. of Aprill we doubled the said Cape, proceeding on for theIsle of Saint Helena, whither we came the twenty sixt of the same month,and there refreshed our selues for the space of eight daies.In this Island we found a church with certaine boothes or tents in it, andthe image of Saint Helena, as likewise a holy water fat, and a sprinkle tocast or sprinkle the holy water: but we left all things in as good order aswe found them.Moreouer here we left behinde vs some remembrances in writing, in token ofour being there. At this place died of the bloody flixe, the Pilot of ourAdmirall Kees Collen of Munickendam, a worthy man, to our great griefe.This Island (as Iohn Huighen van Linschotten describeth it) is replenishedwith manifold commodities, as namely with goates, wilde swine, Turkies,partridges, pidgeons, &c. But by reason that those which arriue there vseto discharge their ordinance, and to hunt and pursue the saide beastes andfowles, they are now growen exceedingly wilde and hard to be come by.Certaine goates whereat we shotte fled vp to the high cliffes, so that itwas impossible to get them. Likewise fishes wee could not catch so many aswee needed; but wee tooke in fresh water enough to serue vs till ourarriuall in Holland.[Sidenote: A man left on land at Saint Helena.] Here we left on land as aman banished out of our society, one Peter Gisbrecht the masters mate ofthe great pinasse, because hee had stroken the Master.Very penitent hee was, and sorie for his misdemeanour, and all of vs didour best endeuour to obtain his pardon: but (the orders and ordinanceswherevnto our whole company was sworne being read before vs) we wereconstrained to surcease our importunate suit, and he for the example ofothers to vndergo the seuere doome that was allotted him.There was deliuered vnto him a certaine quantity of bread, oile, and rice,with hookes and instruments to fish withall, as also a hand gun andgunpowder.Hereupon we bad him generally farewell, beseeching God to keepe andpreserue him from misfortunes, and hoping that at some one time or other heshould finde deliuerance; for that all shippes sailing to the West Indiesmust there of necessity refresh themselues.Not far from this place we descried a saile which wee iudged to be someFrenchmen, by whom peraduenture the saide banished party might beedeliuered.The fourth of May we set saile from Saint Helena, and the tenth of the samemoneth wee passed by the Isle of Ascension. The 17. day wee passed theline. The 21. we saw the Polle-starre. The 10. and 11. of Iune we had sightof the Canaries. About the Azores wee stood in feare to meete with someSpanish Armada, because our men were growen faint and feeble by reason oftheir long voiage. The 27. of Iune we entered the Spanish sea. The 29. wefound our selues to be in fortie foure degrees of northerly latitude. The6. of Iuly our Admirall the Mauritius had two of his mastes blowneouerboord: for which cause we were contrained to towe him along. The 11. ofIuly we passed the sorlings. The 13. we sayled by Falmouth, Dartmouth, andthe Quasquets. The 17. we passed by Douer. The 19. meeting with somestormes and rainy weather we arriued at Texell in our owne native countrey,without any great misfortune, saue that the Mauritius once stroke onground.Thus hauing attained to our wished home, we gaue God thankes for this ourso happy and prosperous voiage: because their neuer arriued in Holland anyshippes so richly laden.[Sidenote: The particulars of their rich lading.] Of pepper we broughteight hundreth tunnes, of Cloues two hundreth, besides great quantity ofMace, Nutmegs, Cinamom, and other principall commodities. To conclude thisvoiage was performed in one yeare, two monethes, and nineteene daies.We were sailing outward from Texell to Bantam seuen moneths, we remainedthere sixe weekes to take in our lading, and in six monethes we returnedfrom Bantam in Iaua to Holland.The performance of this long and daungerous voiage in so short time weascribed to Gods deuine and wonderfull prouidence, hauing sailed at theleast 8000. leagues, that is to say, twenty four thousand English miles.The ioye of the safe arriuall of these shippes in Holland was exceedinggreat: and postes were dispatched to euery principall towne and citty topublish these acceptable newes.The merchants that were owners of these ships went straight toward Texellfor the refreshing of their men, and for other necessary considerations.[Sidenote: Friendly letters and presents from the King of Iaua.] TheCommissary or Factor master Cornelis Heemskerck together with CornelisKnick, hied them with all speed towardes the Estates generall and princeMauritz his excellency, not onely to carry the saide good newes, but withalto present the letters of the King of Iaua importing mutuall alliance,friendship and free intercourse of traffike in consideration of theirhonourable, liberal, and iust dealings: They brought gifts also from thesaid King of great price and value.The 27. of Iuly the Mauritius our Admirall together with the Hollandia camebefore Amsterdam: where they were ioyfully saluted with the sound of eighttrumpettes, with banqueting, with ringing of bels, and with peales ofordinance, the Generall and other men of command being honourably receiuedand welcommed by the citty.The merchants that aduentured in these voyages being in number sixeteene orseuenteene (notwithstanding the foure shippes gone from Iaua to theMoluccas, as it is before mentioned) haue sent this last spring 1599.[Marginal Note: A new supply of foure Hollandish ships sent this lastspring 1599. to the East Indies.] foure ships more to continue this theirtraffique so happely begun: intending moreouer the next spring to send anewe supply of other ships. [Marginal note: An intent of the marchants ofAmsterdam to send more ships the next spring 1600.] And diuers otherMarchants are likewise determined to enter into the same action.Of them that departed from Zeland these bring no newes, otherwise then isaforesaide. Neither doe they report any thing of the two fleetes orcompanies, that went from Roterdam the last sommer 1598, shaping theircourse for the streites of Magellan.Wee haue before made mention of an Indian called Abdoll, which was broughtfrom Bantam, in the first voiage, and had continued an whole winter or someeight months at Amsterdam in Holland.Where during that space (being a man of good obseruation and experience,and borne about China) hee was well entreated, cherished, and much made of.[Sidenote: The relation of Abdull an Indian, concerning the Netherlands.]This Abdoll vpon his returne to Iaua being demanded concerning the state ofthe Netherlands, made vnto the principall men of Bantam a full declarationthereof, with all the rarities and singularities which he had there seenand obserued.Which albeit to the greatest part of readers, who haue trauailed thosecountries may seeme nothing strange, and scarce worthy the relation: yetbecause the report was made by so meere a stranger, and with the Iauansthat heard it wrought so good effect, I thought it not altogetherimpertinent here in this place to make rehearsall thereof.First therefore he tolde them (to their great admiration in that hoatclimate) That hee had seene aboue a thousand sleds drawen, and greatnumbers of horsemen riding vpon the frozen water in winter time, and thathe had beheld more then two hundreth thousand people trauailing on footeand on horseback vpon the yce, as likewise that the said sleds were byhorses drawen so swiftly, that they made more way in three houres than anyman could go on foote in tenne. And also that himselfe for pleasure hadbeene so drawen, the horses being brauely adorned with bels and cymbals.Howbeit they would hardly be induced to beleeue that those countries shouldbe so extreamely colde, and the waters so mightely frozen, as to beare sucha hugh waight.Hee tolde them moreouer, that Holland was a free countrey, and that eueryman there was his owne Master, and that there was not one slaue or captiuein the whole land.Moreover, that the houses, in regarde of their beautifull and loftybuilding, resembled stately pallaces, their inward rich furniture beingaltogether answerable to their outward glorious shew.Also, that the Churches (which he called Mesquitas), were of such bignesseand capacity, as they might receiue the people of any prety towne.He affirmed likewise, that the Hollanders with the assistance of theirconfederates and friendes, maintained warres against the King of Spaine,whose mighty puissance is feared and redoubted of all the potentates ofEuropa.And albeit the said warres had continued aboue thirty yeares, yet thatduring all that time the saide Hollanders increased both in might andwealth.In like sort he informed them of the strange situation of Holland, as beinga countrey driuing vpon the water, the earth or ground whereof, they vseinstead of fewell, and that he had oft times warmed himselfe, and had seenemeat dressed with fires made of the same earth.In briefe, that it was a waterish and fenny countrey, and full of riuers,chanels, and ditches, and that therein was an innumerable multitude ofboates and small shippes, as likewise great store of tall and seruiceableships, wherewith they sailed vnto all quarters of the world, etc.This man Abdoll wee found to bee a captiue or slaue, and sawe there hiswife and children in very poore estate dwelling in a little cottage not sobigge as an hogsty: but by oure meanes he was made free and well rewarded.Notwithstanding he did but euil recompence vs: for he was charged to be thecause why pepper was solde dearer than ordinary vnto vs by a penny in thepound: for hee tolde them that certaine shippes of Zeland and of otherplaces were comming thitherwardes.[Sidenote: The Portugals go about to hinder the trade of the Hollanders.]And here the reader is to vnderstand, that some foure moneths before thesaid three ships arriued at Bantam, the Portugales came with an Armada ofgallies and fustes, being set foorth by the Viceroy of Goa and thegouernour of Molucca, to intercept the traffique of the Hollanders vntothose partes, and to made them loose all their expenses, labour, and timewhich they had bestowed: and also that their great and rich presentes whichthey gaue vnto the Iauans the yeare before, to bring them into vtterdetestation of the Hollanders, might not be altogether in vaine.The Generall of them that came from Goa was Don Luis, and of those thatcame from Molucca Don Emanuell: who brought their Armada before Bantam,intending to surprize the citty, vnder pretence that the same preparationwas made to resist certaine pirates that came thither out of Holland thelast yeare, and were determined this yeare also to come againe. Vnder thesecolours they sought to take the towne and to fortifie the same, and theybuilt certaine sconces in the countrey, committing great outrages,rauishing the Women, with many other villanies. [Sidenote: The Portugalsvanquished.] Hereupon the townsemen of Bantam very secretly providedcertaine gallies and fustes in great hast, and sodainly assailed thePortugales before they were well aware of them: for which cause finding butsmall resistance, they tooke 3. Portugale gallies with certaine shippes,and slewe about 300. of them, taking 150. Portugales prisoners, of which wedaily saw some going vp and downe the streetes of Bantam like slaues andcaptiues. Besides these they tooke about 900. gallie slaues prisoners.Vpon this hard successe the rest of the Portugals betooke themselues toflight: but whither they bee arriued at Goa or Molucca, or what is becomeof them since, we are not able to auouch. The foresaid attempt andouerthrowe, bred greater enmity betweene the Portugales and them of Bantam,and gaue an especiall occasion for the aduancement of our traffique.The fiue ships (whereof we haue before signified that foure were dispatchedby the whole companie for the Moluccas) being seuered beyonde the Cape ofBuona Speranza [Marginal Note: The course which the fiue ships tooke afterthey were separated from their three consorts about the Cape of bouonaesperanza.] from the other three of their company, and hauing quite lostthem, came all of them shortly after vnder an Island called (as it isthought) by the Portugals Isola de Don Galopes: but they named it theIsland of Mauritius. Here they entered into an hauen, calling the sameWarwicke, after the name of their Viceadmirall, wherin they found very goodharborow in twenty degrees of southerly latitude.[Sidenote: The Isle of Mauritius described.] This Island being situate tothe East of Madagascar, and containing as much in compasse as all Holland,is a very high, goodly and pleasant land, full of green and fruitfullvallies, and replenished with Palmito-trees, from the which droppethholesome wine. [Sidenote: Great store of Ebenwood.] Likewise here are verymany trees of right Ebenwood as black as iet, and as smooth and hard as thevery Iuory: and the quantity of this wood is so exceeding, that many shipsmay be laden herewith.For to saile into this hauen you must bring the two highest mountaines oneouer the other, leauing sixe small Islands on your right hand, and so youmay enter in vpon 30. fadomes of water. Lying within the bay, they had 10.12. and 14. fadomes. On their left hand was a litle Island which they namedHemskerk Island, and the bay it selfe they called Warwick bay, as is beforementioned. Here they taried 12. daies to refresh themselues, finding inthis place great quantity of foules twise as bigge as swans, which theycalled Walghstocks or Wallowbirdes being very good meat. But finding alsoaboundance of pidgeons and popiniayes, they disdained any more to eat ofthose great foules, calling them (as before) Wallowbirds, that is to say,lothsome or fulsome birdes.Of the said Pidgeons and Popiniayes they found great plenty being very fatand good meate, which they could easily take and kil euen with littlestickes: so tame they are by reason that the Isle is not inhabited, neitherbe the liuing creatures therein accustomed to the sight of men.Here they found rauens also, and such abundance of fish, that two men wereable to catch enough for all fiue ships.Tortoises they found so huge, that tenne men might sit and dine in one oftheir shelles, and one of them would creepe away, while two men stood vponthe backe thereof.Here was founde waxe also whiter then any of ours, lying about the strande,bleached (as it is like) by the sunne: and in some of this waxe there wereArabian letters or characters printed: whereby it is probable, that someArabian ship might bee cast away thereabout, out of which the said waxemight be driuen on land.They found likewise Corall on this land, and many trees which we callPalmitos, whereout droppeth wine as out of the Coco-tree: which wine beingkept hath his operation as our new prest wine, but after some time itcommeth vnto the ful vertue and perfection.The said Palmitos they esteemed to bee a kinde of wilde date-trees.We sought all the Island ouer for men, but could find none, for that it waswholly destitute of Inhabitants.Vpon this Island we built an house with a pulpit therein, and left behindvs certaine writings as a token and remembrance of our being there, andvpon the pulpit we left a Bible and a psalter lying.[Sidenote: A good watering place.] Thus after 12. daies aboad at thisIsland, being well refreshed, they tooke in excellent fresh water beingeasie to get, and very sweet and sauory to drinke, and then set saile,meeting the three other ships their consorts at the time and place beforementioned.       *       *       *       *       *A briefe description of the voiage before handled, in manner of a Iournall.The first of Maie 1598. with the eight shippes before mentioned, we setsaile in the name of God from Texell in Holland.The third of May we passed along the coast of England, descrying some ofher Maiesties ships, and they vs, whom we honoured with discharge of ourartillery.The fourteenth we had sight of the Isle of Porto Santo lying in thirty twodegrees.The sixteenth, wee came within sight of the Canaries.The twenty two, we first saw flying fishes.The twenty three, we passed by the Isle Dell Sall.The thirty one, we had a great storme, so that we lost sight one ofanother: but by night we came together againe.The eighth of Iune wee crossed the Equinoctiall line.The twenty foure we sayled by the sholdes of Brasile lying vnder eighteenedegrees of Southerly Latitude.The twenty one of Iuly we got to the height of the Cape of buona esperanza.From the thirtith of Iuly till the second of August, we continually sayledin sight of the land of the aforesaid Cape.The seuenth and eighth of August wee had such foule and stormy weather,that fiue ships of our company were separated from vs, whom we saw no morevntill they came to vs before Bantam.The twenty sixt we descryed the Island of Madagascar.The twenty nine came by us the ship called the Long barke of Zeland, hauingin her but nine sound men, tenne dead, and the rest all sicke: but the samenight we lost the sight of her againe.The seauenth of September, we came before the Island of Santa Maria, andafterward wee put into the great bay of Antogill.The sixteenth of September, wee set saile from thence, directing our coursefor Iaua.The first of October, wee got to the heighth of Bantam.The fifteenth, died the first man in our Admirall.The nineteenth of November, we came within sight of Sumatra.The twenty-ninth, we road before the citty of Bantam: And the thirtieth, wepayed our toll to the gouernour.And vpon Newyeares daie 1599. Stilo Nouo, we began to take in our lading.Then came vnto vs before Bantam, with great ioie and triumph, our fiueseparated shippes, all the people standing vpon the shore gazing, andsuspecting some harme intended against them.The eighth of Ianuary, foure of the said 5. newcome shippes (God send thema prosperous voyage) set saile toward the Moluccas.Moreouer our foure shippes being well and richly laden at Bantam made sailehomewarde the eleuenth of Ianuary, and the thirteenth, wee were shot asfarre as the Isles of Sumatra.The nineteenth, we proceeded thence on our voige, and the same day, to thegreat griefe of vs all died the Pilot of our Admirall.The third of Aprill, we descried the land of Capo de buona esperanza.The eighth, wee doubled the same Cape, thence shaping our course for theIsland of Saint Helena, where the twenty sixt we happily arriued, anddeparted from thence vpon the fourth of Maie.The tenth of Maie, wee sailed by the Isle of Ascension.The seuenteenth, we passed the Equinoctiall line.The twenty one, we saw the North starre.The ninth and tenth of Iune, we had sight of the Canaries.The twenty seauen, wee sayled vpon the Spanish Sea.The twenty nine, we were in fortie four degrees.The fourth of Iuly, we saw behind vs two sailes, one before the other,which were the first that we had seene for a long time.The sixt of Iuly our Admirall had both his foremast and mainemast blowneouer boord.The eleuenth, we passed the Sorlings, the thirteenth, Falmouth, Plimmouthand the Quasquets.The seauenteenth, we came before Dover.The nineteenth, wee had foule and stormy weather, at what time by Gods goodblessing wee arriued in our natiue countrey at Texell in Holland, hauingperformed in the short space of one yeare, two moneths and nineteene daies,almost as long a voiage, as if we should haue compassed the globe of theearth, and bringing home with vs our full fraight of rich and gainfullMarchandize.END OF VOL. X.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Principal Navigations, Voyages,Traffiques, and Discoveries of The English Nation, Volume 10, by Richard Hakluyt*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRINCIPAL NAVIGATIONS, V10 ******** This file should be named 11948.txt or 11948.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/1/9/4/11948/Produced by Karl Hagen and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.This file was produced from images generously made available by theCanadian Institute for Historical MicroreproductionsUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg eBook, Chromosome Number 16, by the Human Genome ProjectThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Chromosome Number 16Author: Human Genome ProjectRelease Date: March 26, 2004  [eBook #11790]Language: FASTACharacter set encoding: US-ASCII***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHROMOSOME NUMBER 16***>chr16taaccctaaccctaaccctaaccctaaccctaaccgaccctcaccctcaccctaaccAcatgagcaatgtgggtgttatattttagctgtcatgggtgcattaggaatgctgcatttgtgtttcaacgctgcaactggaccctgcaatgcagcccctcgccttgccttgggagaatctcggtgcccaggattcagaggggcttttagtttcccattttccacactgaaccgttctaactggtctctgaccttgattattcacggctgcaaccgggaaagattttattcactgtcaatgcgccccgagttgtcccaaagccaggcagtgcccccaacgtctgtgcttagcagaatgctgctccacctttacggtgacccccaggtctgtgctgagcagaacgcagctccgccctcgcagtaccctcagcccgcccgcccgggtctgacctgagcagaactctgctctgccttcgcagtaccaccgaaatctgtgcaaaggagaacgcagctccgccctcgcggtgctctccgcgtctgtgctgaggagaacgcaactccgccgtcgcaaaggcgcgcgccgcgccggcgcaggcgcagaggggcgcgccgcgccggcgcaggcgcagagacacatgctagcgcgtccaggggtggaggcgtggcgcaggcgcagagacgcacgcctacgggcgggggttgggggggcgtgtgttgcaggagcaaagtcgcacggcgccggcctgggggcggggggtggggggcgccgttgcacgcgcagaaactcacgtcacggtggcgcggcgcagagacgggtggaacctcagtaatccgaaaagccgggatcgaccgccccttgcttgcagccgggcactacaggacccgcttgctcacggtgctgtgccagggcgccccctgctggcgactagggcaactgcagggctctcttgcttagagtggtggccagcgccccctgctggcgccggggcactgcagggccctcttgcttactgtatagtggtggcacgccgcctgctggcagctagggacattgcaggctcctcttgctcaaagtgtagtggcagcacgcccgcctgctggcagctggggacactgccgggccctcttgctccaacagtagtggcGGATTATAGGGAAACACCCGGAGCATATGCTGTTTGGTCTCAgtagactcctaaatatgggattcctgggtttaaaagtataaaataaatatgtttaatttgttaactgattaccatcagaattatactgttctgtatcccaccagcaatgtctaggaatacctgtttctccacaaagtgtttacttttggatttttgccagtctagcaggtgaAGccctggagattcttattagtcatttgggctggggcctggccatgtgtatttttttaaatttccactgatgattttgctgcatggccggtgttgagaatgactgCGCAAATTTGCCGGATTTCCTTTGCTGTTCCTGCATGTAGTTTAAACGAGATTGCCACCACCGGGTATCATTCACCATTTTTCTTTTTGTTAACTTGCCGTCAGCCTTTTCTTTGACCTCTTCTTTCTCTTCATGTGTATTTGCTGTCTCTTAGCCCAGACTTCCCGTGTCCTTTCCACCGGGCCTTTGAGAGGTCACAGGGTCTTGATGCTGTGGTCTTGATCTGCAGGTGTCTGACTTCCAGCAACTGCTGGCCTGTGCCAGGGTGCAAGCTGAGCACTGGAGTGGAGTTTTCCTGTGGAGAGGAGCCATGCCTAGAGTGGGATGGGCCATTGTTCATCTTCTGGCCCCTGTTGTCTGCATGTAACTTAATACCACAACCAGGCATACGGGAAAGATTGGAGGAAAGATGAGTGAGAGCATCAACTTCTCTGACAACCTAGGCCAGTAAGTAGTGCTTGTGCTCATCTCCTTGGCTGTGATACGTGGCCGGCCCTCGCTCCAGCAGCTGGACCCCTACCTGCCGTCTGCTGCCATCGGAGCCCAAAGCCGAGCTGTGACTGCTCAGACCAGCCGGCTGGAGGGAGGGGCTCAGCAGGTCTGGCTTTGGCCCTGGGAGAGCAGGTGGAAGATCAGGCAGGCCATCGCTGCCGCAGAACCCAGTGGATTGGCCTAGGTGGGATCTCTGAGCTCAACAAGCCCTCTCTGGGTGGTAGGTGCAGAGAGGGGAGGGGCAGAGCCGCAGGCACAGCCAAGAGGGCTGAAGAAATGGTAGAACGGAGCAGCTGGTGATGTGTGGGCCCACCGGCCCCAGGCTCCTGTCTCCCCCCAGGTGTGTGGTGATGCCAGGCATGCCCTTCCCCAGCATCAGGTCTCCAGAGCTGCAGAAGACGACGGCCGACTTGGATCACACTCTTGTGAGTGTCCCCAGTGTTGCAGAGGTGAGAGGAGAGTCGACAGTGAGTGGGAGTGGCGTCACCCCTAGGGCTCTACTGGGCCGGCGTCTCCTGTCTCCTGGAGAGGCTTCGATGCCCCTCCACACCCTCTTGCTCTTCCCTGTGATGTCATCTGGAGCCCTGCTGCTTGCGGTGGCCTATAAAGCCTCCTGGTCTGGCTCCAAGGCCTGGCAGAGTCTTTCCCAGGGAAAGCTATAAGCAGCAAACAGTCCGCATGGGTCATCCCCTTCACTCCCAGCTCAGAGCCCAGGCCAGGGGCCCCCAAGAAAGGCTCTGGTGGAGAACCTGTGCATGAAGGCTGTCAACCAGTCCATAGGCAAGCCTGGCTGCCTCCAGCTGGGTGGACAGACAGGGGCTGGAGAAGGGGAGAAGAGGAAAGGGGAGTTGCCTGCCCTGTCTCCTACCTGAGGCTGAGGAAGGAGAAGGGGATGCACTGTTGGGGAGGCAGCTGTAACTCAAAGCCTTAGCCTCTGTTCCCATGAAGGCAGGGCCATCAGGCACCAAAGGGATTCTGCCAGCATAGTGCTCCTGGACCAGTGATACACCCGGCACCCTGTCCTGGACAGGCTGTTGGCCTGAATCTGAGCCCTCGTGGAGGTCAAAGCAACCTTTGGTTCTGCCATTGCTGCTGTGTGGAAGTTCACTCCTGCCTTTTCCTTTCCCTAGAGCCTCCACCACCCCGAGATCACATTTCTCACTGCCTTTTGTCTGCCCAGTTTCACCAGAAGTAGGCCTCTTCCTGACAGGCAGCTGCACCACTGCCTGGCGCTGCGCCCTTCCTTTGCTCTGCCCGCTGGAGACGGTGTTTGTCATGGGCCTGGTCTGCAGGGATCCTGCTACAAAGGTGAAACCCAGGAGAGTGTGGAATCCAGAGTGTTGCCAGGACCCAGGCACAGGCATTAGTGCCCGTTGGAGAAAACAGGGGAATCCCGAAGAAATGGTGGGTCCTGGCCATCCGTGAGATCTTCCCAGGGCAGCTCCCCTCTGTGGAATCCAATCTGTCTTCCATCCTGCGTGGCCGAGGGCCAGGCTTCTCACTGGGCCTCTGCAGGAGGCTGCCATTTGTCCTGCCCACCTTCTTAGAAGCGAGACGGAGCAGACCCATCTGCTACTGCCCTTTCTATAATAACTAAAGTTAGCTGCCCTGGACTATTCACCCCCTAGTCTCCATTTAAAAAGATCCCCATGGCCACAGGGCCCCTGCCTGGGGGCTTGTCACCTCCCCCACCTTCTTCCTGAGTCACTCCTGCAGCCTTGCTCCCTAACCTGCCCCACAGCCTTGCCTGGATTTCTATCTCCCTGGCTTGGTGCCAGTTCCTCCAAGTCGATGGCACCTCCCTCCCTCTCAACCACGTGAGCAAACTCCAAGACATCTTCTACCCCAACACCAGCAATTGTGCCAAGGGCCATTAGGCTCTCAGCATGACTATTTTTAGAGACCCCGTGTCTGTCACTGAAACCTTTTTTGTGGGAGACTATTCCTCCCATCTGCAACAGCTGCCCCTGCTGACTGCCCTTCTCTCCTCCCTCTCATCCCAGAGAAACAGGTCAGCTGGGAGCTTCTGCCCCCACTGCCTAGGGACCAACAGGGGCAGGAGGCAGTCACTGACCCCGAGACGTTTGCATCCTGCACAGCTAGAGGTCCTTTATTAAAAGCACACTGTTGGTTTCTGCTCAGTTCTTTATTGATTGGTGTGCCGTTTTCTCTGGAAGCCTCTTAAGAGAAGAACACAGTGGCGCAGGCTGGGTGGAGCCGTCCCCCCATGGAGCACAGGCAGACAGAAGTCCCCGCCCCAGCTGTGTGGCCTCAAGCCAGCCTTCCGCTCCTTGAAGCTGGTCTCCACACAGTGCTGGTTCCGTCACCCCCTCCCAGGGAAGCAGGTCTGAGCAGCTTGTCCTGGCTGTGTCCATGTCAGAGCAACGGCCAAGTCTGGGTCTGGGGGGGAAGGTGTCATGGAGCCCCCTACGATTCCCAGTCGTCCTCGTCCTCTGCCTGTGGCTGCTGCGGTGGCGGCAGAGGAGGGATGGAGTCTGACACGCGGGCAAAGGCTCCTCCGGGCCCGTCACCAGCCCCAGGTCCTTTCCCAGAGATGCCTGGAGGGAAAAGGCTGAGTGAGGGTGGTTGGTGGGAAACCCTGGTTCCCCCAGCCCCCGGAGACTTAAATACAGGAAGAAAAAGGCAGGACAGAATTACAATGTGCCGGCCCAGGGTGGGCAGCGGCCCTGCCTCCTACCCTTGCGCCTCATGACCAGCTTGTTGAAGAGATCCGACATCAAGTGCCCACCTTGGCTCGTGGCTCTCACTGCAACGGGAAAGCCACAGACTGGGGTGAAGAGTTCAGTCACATGCGACCGGTGGCTCCCTGTCCCCACCCCCATGACACTCCCCAGCCCTCCAAGGCCACTGTGTTTCCTAGTTAGCTCAGAGCCTCAGTCGATGCCTGACCCAGCACCGGGCACTGATGAGAAAGTGGCTGTTTGAGGAGCCACCTCCCAGCCACCTCGGGGACAGGGCCAGGGTGTGCAGCAccactgtacgatggggaaactggcccagagaggtgaggcagcttgcctggggtcacagagcaaggcaaaagcagcgctgggtacaagctcaAAACCATAGTGCCCAGGGCACTGCCGCTGCAGGCGCAGGCATCGCATCACACCAGTGTCTGCGTTCACAGCAGGCATCATCAGTAGCCTCCAGAGGCCTCAGGTCCAGTCTCTAAAAATATCTCAGGAGGCTGCAGTGGCTGACCATTGCCTTGGACCGCTCTTGGCAGTCGAAGAAGATTCTCCTGTCACAGTTTGAGCTGGGTGAGCTTAGAGAGGAAAGCTCCACTATGGCTCCCAAACCAGGAAGGAGCCATAGCCCAGGCAGGAGGGCTGAGGACCTCTGGTGGCGGCCCAGGGCTTCCAGCATGTGCCCTAGGGGAAGCAGGGGCCAGCTGGCAGGAGCAGGGGGTGGGCAGAAAGCACCCGGTGGACTCAGGGCTGGAGGGGAGGAGGCGATCTTGCCCAAAGGCCCTCCGACCGCAGGCTCCAGGGCCCGCTCACCTTGCTCCTGCTCCTTCTGCTGCTGCTTCTCCAGCTTTCGCTCCTTCATGCTGCGCAGCTTGGCCTTGCCGATGCCCCCAGCTTGGCGGATGGACTCTAGCAGAGTGGCCCAGCCACCGGAGGGGTCGACCACTTCTCTGGGAGCTCCCTGGACTGGAGCCGGGAGGTGGGGAACAGGGCAAGGAGGAAAGGCTGCTCAGGCAGGGCTGGGGAAGCTTACTGTGTCCAAGAGCCTGCTGGGAGGGAAGTCACCTCCCCTCAAACGAGGAGCCCCGCGCTGGGGAGGCCGGACCTTTGGAGACTGTGTGGGGCCCGGGCACTGACTTCGGCAACCACCTGAGCGCGGGCATCCTGTGTGCAGATACTCCCTGCTTCCTCTCTAGCCCTCACCCTGCAGAGCTGGACCCCTGAGCTAGCCATGCTCTGACAGTCTCAGTTGCACACATGAGCCAGCAGAGGGGTTTTGTGCCACTTCTGGATGCTAGGGTTACACTGGGAGATACAGCAGTGAAGCTGAAATGAAAAATGTGTTGCTGTAGTTTGTTATTAGACCCCTTCTTTCCATTGGTTTAATTAGGAATGAGGAACCCAGAGCCTCACTTGTTCAGGCTCCCTCTGCCCTAGAAGTGAGAAGTCCAGAGCTCTACAGTTTGAAAGCCACTATTTTATGAACCAAGTAGAACAAGATATTTGAAATGGAAACTATTCAAAAAATTGAGAATTTCTGACCACTTAACAAACCCACAGAAAATCCACCCGAGTGCACTGAGCACGCCAGAAATCAGGTGGCCTCAAAGAGCTGCTCCCACCTGAAGGAGATGCGCTGCTGCTGCTGTCGTCCTGCCTGGCGCCTTGGCCTACAGGGGCCGCGGTTGAGGGTGGGAGTGGGGGTGCACTGGCCAGCACCTCAGGAGCtgggggtggtggtgggggcggtgggggtggtgttagtACCCCATCTTGTAGGTCTGAAACACAAAGTGTGGGGTGTCTAGGGAAGAAGGTGTGTGAGCAGGGAGGTCCCCGGCCCAGCTCCCATCCCAGAACCCAGCTCACCTACCTTGAGAGGCTCGGCTACCTCAGTGTGGAAGGTGGGCAGTTCTGGAATGGTGCCAGGGGCAGAGGGGGCAATGCCGGGGCCCAGGTCGGCAATGTACATGAGGTCGTTGGCAATGCCGGGCAGGTCAGGCAGGTAGGATGGAACATCAATCTCAGGCACCTGGCCCAGGTCTGGCACATAGAAGTAGTTCTCTGGGACCTGCAAGATTAGGCAGGGACATGTGAGAGGTGACAGGGACCTGCAGGGGCAGCCAACAAGACCTTGTGTGCACCTCCCATGGGTGGAATAAGGGGCCCAACAGCCTTGACTGGAGAGGAGCTCTGGCAAGGCCCTGGGCCACTGCACCTATCTCCACCTCTGTCCCGCCCCTCCCACCTGCTGTTCCAGCTGCTCTCTCTTGCTGATGGACAAGGGGGCATCAAACAGCTTCTCCTCTGTCTCTGCCCCCAGCATCACATGGGTCTTTGTTACAGCACCAGCCAGGGGGTCCAGGAAGACATACTTCTTGTACCTACAGAGGCGACATGGGGGTCAGGCAAGCTGACACCCGCTGTCCTGAGCCCATGTTCCTCTCCCACATCATCAGGGGCACAGTGTGCACTGTGGGGTCCCAGGCCTCCCGAGCCGAGCCACCCCAGTCACCCCCTGGCTCCTGGGCTATGTGCTGTACCTGTGTCTGATGCCCTGGGTCCCCACTAAGCCAGGCCGGGCCTACCGCCCACACCCCTCGGCCCTGCCTTCTGGCCATACAGGTTCTCGGTGGTGTTGAAGAGCAGCAAGGAGCTGACAGAGCTGATGTTGCTGGGAAGACCCCCAAGTCCCTCTTCTGCATCGTCCTCGGGCTCTGGCTTGGTGCTCACGCACACAGGAAAGTCCTTCAGCTTCTCCTGGGAGGGCCAGGATGGCCAAGGGATGGTGAATATTTGGTGCTGGGCCTAATCAGCTGCCACCCCATCCCAGTCAGCCTCCTCTGGGGGACAGAACCCTTGGTGGCCCCGGCTCCTCCCCAGTATCCAGTCCTCCTGGTGTGTGACAGGCTAAGTTATGTGCGCAGCCAGCAGACTTGCAGGGCCCGCTCGTCCAGGGGGCGCTGCTTGCTCTGGATCCTGTGGCGGGGGCGTCTCTGCAGGCCAGGGTCCTGGGCGTCGGTGAAGATGGAGCCATATTCCTGCAGGCGCTCTGGAGCAGGGTACTTGGCACTGGAGAACACCTGTGGACACAGGGACAAGTCTGAGGGGGCCCCAAGAGGCTCAGAGGGCTAGGATTGCTTGGCAGGAGAGGGTGGAGTTGGAAGCCTGGGCGAGAAGAAAGCCCAAGGTACAGGTGGGCAGCAGGGCAGAGACTGGGCAGCCTCAGAGGCACGGGGAAATAGAGGGACTGCCCAGTAGCCTCAGGACACAGGGGCATGGGGACTACCTTGATGGCCTTCTTGCTGCCCTTGATCTTCTCAATCTTGGCCTGGGCCAAGGAGACCTTCTCTCCAATGGCCTGCACCTGGCTCCGGCTCTGCTCTACCTGCTGGGAGATCCTGCCATGGAGAAGATCACAGAGGCTGGGCTGCTCCCCACCCCCTGCACACCTCCTGCTTCTAACAGCAGAGCTGCCAGGCCAGGCCCTCAGGCAAGGGCTCTGAAGTCAGGGTCACCTGCTTGCCAGGGCCGATCTTGGTGCCATCCAGGGGGCCTCTACAAGGATAATCTGACCTGCAGGGTCGAGGAGTTGACGGTGCTGAGTTCCCTGCACTCTCACTAGGGACAGGCCCTATGCTGCCACCTGTACATGCTATCTGAAGGACAGCCTCCAGGGCACACAGAGGATGGTATTTACACATGCACACATGGCTACTGATGGGGCAAGCACTTCACAACCCCTCATGATCACGTGCAGCAGACAAAGTGACCTCTGCAGAGGGGGAACGGAGACCGGAGGCTGAGACTGGCAAGGCTGGACCTGAGTGTCGTCACCTAAATTCAGACGGGGAACTGCCCCTGCACCTAGTGAACGGCTCACTGAGCAAACTCTGAGTCCCGACCACCGCCTCAGTGTGGTCTAGCTcctcacctgcttccatcctccctggtgcggggtgggcccagtgatatcagctgcctgctgttccccagatgtgccaagtgcattcttgtgtgcttgcatctcatggaacgccatttccccagacatccctgtggctggctcctGATGCCCGAGGCCCAAGTGTCTGATGCTTTAAGGCACATCACCCCACTCATGCTTTTCCATGTTCTTTGGCCGCAGCAAGGCCGCTCTCACTGCAAAGTTAACTCTGATGCGTGTGTAACACAACATCCTCCTCCCAGTCGCCCCTGTAGCTCCCCTACCTCCAAGAGCCCAGCCCTTGCCCACAGGGCCACACTCCACGTGCAGAGCAGCCTCAGCATTCACCGGGCACGAGCGAGCCTGTGTGGTGCGCAGGGATGAGAAGGCAGAGGCGCGACTGGGGTTCATGAGGAAGGGCAGGAGGAGGGTGTGGGATGGTGGAGGGGTTTGAGAAGGCAGAGGCGCGACTGGGGTTCATGAGGAAAGGGAGGGGGAGGATGTGGGATGGTGGAGGGGCTGCAGACTCTGGGCTAGGGAAAGCTGGGATGTCTCTAAAGGTTGGAACGAATGGCCTAGAATCCGACCCAATAAGCCAAAGCCACTTCCACCAACGTTAGAAGGCCTTGGCCCCCAGAGAGCCAATTTCACAATCCAGAAGTCCCCGTGCCCTAATGGGTCTGCCCTGATTACTCCTGGCTCCTTGTGTGCAGGGGGCTCAGGCATGGCAGGGCTGGGAGTACCAGCAGACACTCAAGCGGCTTAAGTGTTCCATGACAGACTGGTATGAAGGTGGCCACAATTCAGAAAGAAAAAAGAAGAGCACCATCTCCTTCCAGTGAGGAAGCGGGGCCACCACCCAGCGTGTGCTCCATCTTTTCTGGCTGGGGAGAGGCCTTCATCTGCTGTAAAGGGTcctcaccctgaccctgaccctcaccctgaccctgaccctaaaaccctgaccctaaaaccctgaccctaaccctgaccctgaccctaaccctgaccctgaccctaaccctgacccggaccctgaaccctaatccggaccctgaaccctaacccggaccactgaaccctaacaccgaccctgaaccctaaccccgaccctcaccctgaccctcaccctaccctgaccctcaccctgaccctgaccctgaccctcaccctgaccctgactctgaccctgaccctgaccctgactctaaccctaaccctgaccctgaccctgaccctgaccctgacccttgaccctgaccctgaccctgacccttgaccctgacccCGatttcattcatttgatcttcaatcactgataccctttcttccagttgatcgcatcggctactaaagcttgtgcattcgtcacatagttctcgtgccatggttttcacctccatcaggacttctctgcattggttattctagttagccattcatctaatctttttttcaaggtctttaacttctttgcactgggttcgaacttcgtcctttagctcggagaagtttgatcatctgaagccttcttttctcaactcgtcaaagtcattctccgtccacctttgttccattgttggtgaggagctttgttcctttggaggaagagaggcgctctgatttttagaattttcagtttttctgctctgttttttccctatctttgtggttttatctacctttggtctctgatgatggtgacgtacagatggggtttttgtgtggatgtcctttctgtttgttagttttccttctaacagtcaggaccctcagctgcaggtctgttggagtttgctggaggtccactccagaccctgtttgcctgggtatcagcagtggaggctgcagaagagtgaatattgctgaacaccaaatgttgctgcccgatcgttcctctggaagcttggtctcagaggggtacccggcaatgtgaggtgtcagtctgcccctactggggggtacctcccagataggctacccgggggtcagggacccacttgaggaggcagtttgtctgttctcagatctcaaactccgtgcttggagaaccactactctcttcaaagctgtcagacagggacatttaagtctgcagagatttctgttgccttttgttcgactatgccctgcccccagaagtggagtctacagaggcaggcaggcctccttgagctgtggtgggttccacccagttcaagcttcccagccactttgtttacctactcaagcctcagcaatggcgggcacccctccaccagccttgctgccaccttgcagttcaatctcagactgctgtgctagcaatgagcgaggctccgtgggtgtgggaccctccgagccaggcgtgggatataatctcctggtgtgcggtttgctaagaccgttggaaaagcgcagtattagggtgggagtgaccctattttccaggtgccatctgtcacagcttcccttggctaggaaagggaattccctgaccccttgtgcttcccgggtgaggcgatgtctcgccctgcttcggctcaagcttggtgggctgcacccactgtctgacaagccccagtgagatgaacccagtaccacagttggaaatgcagaaatcacccatcttctgcgtcactcaggctgggagctgtagactggagctgttcctattccatgtctttatcttttaattgggttgtttttcttcttgttgagtattagaatgtctttgtatattttgcatgcaagtctttttttcaggcttgttttataaatattttctctcagtgtgtgccttattttttgattctcttagcaggatatttcacagagtagtcattttaaattttaatgatgtccaaattatcattttttttcttttatggactggcttttggtattgtatctaagaactcatcaccaacccaaagtcacgtggattttcttctataaaacttttacaattttatatttgatcatttaaggctacagactatcttgagtgattttttgggggtgagctatgaagtttttgtccacattcagtgttttccgtatggtttccgattgtctattgccatttgtggaacagacttttctttccccagtgaattgcttttgcccctttgacaaaatcaattgaatgtatttactcgggttttttgggttctgtattgtgttctgttgagctgtttgtccattccttcaccaatatcactctcttcattgctttagctttgtggtaaAGCtaacaataatgagtgtactgctcctaaacaaggagtatctgcatttatttaatattttttattcttctcaaccgtgatctaaagttttctgaatgcatatttgtatgtattttgttagatttatacctaataaattaaattttgggaatgctattgtaaatggtatttttttcaaatttcaagttcaaattattcctatacattattgctgatgatagaaagaaaatcaggcagtgtgtggtggctcacgcccgtaatcctagcactttgggaggcctagttgggaggatcatttgagcttgggagttctagaccagcctgggcaacatagttagacctgccccgcccataaaaaataaaataataaataaaggaaaatcaggtggtgccggacacagttgttcacacctgtaatcccagtgtgttgggaggctgaggctggagaatttcttgaacccgggagctggaggctgaactcgggagctgtgattacaccactgcacttcagcatgggtgacagagcgagaccctgtctcttaaagagaaaagaaagaaaatcaattaagttttgcctactggccAtcttttttttgagatggagtttggctctgtcacccaggttggagtgcagtgacatgatcttggctcactgcaacctgcgcctcctgggttcgagcaatcctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcacgtgccgccatgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagtatagacgcggtttcaccatgttagccaggctggtctcaaactctggacctgaagtaatccgcccgcttcagcctcccaaaatgctgggattacaggcatgaacTGGCCATCTTCTTTGCTTCCTTGCTCCATGAGTTCCGATCAAGGCATGGGATGGTGGGCTCCATTTCAGTCGTAATTTCCAAAATCCACAGCCTGGAAAAATCTAGACGCTGATTTTCAGAGACTCCCCATGGCTGCCGCAAGGGGGCGCATGGCCCCTGGCAACTCGGGGCGCCGTGCACGCACCGCGTCTCATCCACACAGCGGCAGTCACTTTGCGGCCACTATGAGGACTGAGCTTCCTCTCCCCAGGACCCGCATGGGAGAGACCGCGGCTTCGAgacacctggggacacctggggacacctggggCGGCGTCCGCGGTGAGGACTGGGAGACGCTGCTGCATCTCCGGGACACCACTTGGGGCCGAGGCCAAGGTGAGGAAAAGGCTTCCCGCCCCCGCTGTGAGTGTGGCGGAGCGAGCGCGGCTGCATTTCCCGTCGTGCACTTTGTAGCAGGACCTCACTTTGTAGGAGATTCCCCTTCATGGAGGCTTGGGCGGGTCACCCCCAGTGCAGGCCAAGATGCAGGTTACGGATGTGAGTTTCTTTCTGGGAAGAGACCCTGGTACCGGGAGAGGAGGAAGAACGCGGAGACGCTGTCGGGAGATCAGCCTGAGGCCGAGGAAACAGGCCCCTGGGATCAGTGCTGGATGtttgtttttgattttgttttttgctttttgtttttttttttttttttttttttttggagacggcgtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcaatctccgctgactgcaacctctgcctccatggttcaagcgattctcctacctcagcctcccaaagctggcactacaggagcaggccaccatgtccagctaatttttatatgttttgtagagacggggtttcaccacgttgagcaggatgatctcaatctcctgacctcgtgatctgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccatgccctgccCtctttctttttgagaggaagcctcactctgtcgactaggatggagtgcaggtgtgcaatctctgctcactgcaacctccgcttcctgggctcaagcgattctcctccctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacatacagttgtgcgccacggcgcccagctaatttttttttttttttttttttttgtatttttagtagagacgggggtttcaccatgttggccaggttggtctcgaactcactgagctcaagtgatcctcctgcctcggcctcctaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgaacTGGCCATCTTCTTTGCTTGCTGTCTCCATGGGTTTCGATCGGGGCACGGGATGGTGGGCTCCATGTCAGTTGAAATTTCCAAAATCACGGCATGGAAAAATCCAAACGCTAATTTTCAGGGATTCTCCACGGCTGCCATTAGGGGGCCCGGCCAAACCCGGAGCGCCACAGTAGAACTGCGTCTGATCCGTACAGCGGCATCCCTGGGTGTGAGGACTGTGAGGACGGAGTTTTCTCTCCTCAGGACCCACCCAGGAGGGGCCATGGCTTCGAGACACCTGAGGACACCTGGGGCCACGTCCGCGATGAGGACATCTCTGGGACACCTGGGGCTGCATCTCCGGGACACCTGGGGCTGACCCTGGTACGGGGAAAGGAGGAGGAACACAGAGACGCCCTCGTGAGGTCGGGGACCAGCAGGCACCACAGTCTAAGGCCAATGAAACAGGCGCCCCTAGATGAGTGCTCGGTGtttgttttgttttgttttcttttgagaaggagtttcgctcttgctccccaggctggagtgcgatgtcgcgatctcgactcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacagtcatgcgccatcacgcccggctaattttgtagttttagtagagacggtgtttctccatgttgatcaggctggtctcgaactcctgatctcaggtgatccacccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctggaattacaggcgtgacccactgggcccggccAGTGCTTTGTGTTTTAAGGCTCTTTTGTTAACGCAGTGGAAACAACACAGGAAATGGAAAAGCAGGCACATTATCATTCTCAGgccactgcatttagcctgggcgacagagcgagaccttgtctcaaaaaacaaaaacaaatgaaaacaaaaacaaaCCATTTTGTGTGTCTAATGGAAGTGACCTCGTCAACAACAGTCTTTTGTTGAGAAAGTCTGTTTAATTGGCAGTGTATTTGTAATGGTACATAAAATGACGTCTGCTTTATAAGCATTCTCATTCCTATATTAGATGAAATGTATTAACTATATCAAGCTTTGATATTATACCATAAAATTACTTGAAGAAAGTCACTACTCTTTTTTTTCCTTTACCTTGACCATTTTAAATAAAATCATATTTCATTAAGGTTAGTTAATACTGAGCTGTAAATATGTATGGTCCTGGGGTCTTTTCTttcttttttcctttttttttttttttttttgaaacggagtctcgctctgtctcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcaatctcggctcaccgcaacctccacctcctgggtttgagcaattctctgcctcagcctcctaagtagctgggattatagtcacttaccaccatgcctggctaattttttttttttatatatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatcttggccaggctggtattgaactcctgaccttgtggtccacccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagacatgcgccactgctcctggcctcttttctttttttgacatggagtctcactttgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccggattcaagtgattctcctacttcagcctcccgagtacctgggattacaggcctgaacaaccatgcccagctaattatttttgtatttttcatagagatgatagggttttgccatgttgcccagactggtctcaaacttctgggctcaagcagtctgcttgcctcagcctctcaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccatgccaggccTGTCTCATTCCAATAAGGAATTATTAGCTTTTTCTGAGCACCACTGTGTGCAGGTGTCTTGCTCAGGTGAActcacagcagtctgctaggtatggctagcaccctgtgcagaggggagggccaggcttaggtgactgagtgactcacctacaaattacacagcctccagtggcttcactctcaggttccagcccagaaccagctctccagggcccACTCAGGGAAAGTTTATGAGTTGAATGAAGACGTGTCCAGGCCACACAGGAGAGGCATCCCAATTGTGGGTTCGTTTATGTGATCATGAGGTAGCCCAGGTCACACATGGAGCCTCATGAGCCACACAGCCCCTGTTATAAATACACTAGCCCGGGGCTCCCCAGAGCCCAGCTCCAGGAAGTGGATTCACACTAGTATTTTTATACTTGGTTAGAGCTGAGGATGCCTGTACCTCGCTTCCGTCCACACCCCTCCCACTCTCTGGATGCTAAAGATACATTCTGGGGCCTGCCTCGCCCCCACAGACCAGGATCCAGCTCTGCTGAGGCTCCCCACAAAACCCCAGAAGCTCTGCAGGCATGCAGGGTGGGAGGGCTGCCTATCTGAGCCAGAAGGGGCTTTTGCCTTTGGGGGCATCAGGCTACAGGTACTTCTTTCTGCTCAGGTTGCAGGAAGCATGAGAGCACCCAGGAGAGTTGCTCCCTGTAGCTCAGGACCCAGGGAGCTAACAGTCTCCATTTCATCCTGCCTTCAAAACTTCAGCGCTCCCAGCCCCAAAACACTCTtgatgcaggaaaggtgagcccagaaattggggtttagcacaggagggcttttggcttcacccaggaaagaattcaagggcgagtcggtggtattagagagcaacttttatttaagcagctgtgcacagtggcagcagaggtactgctccttatggagcagggatgccccataggcagtgagcccagagtagcagctcagaggcagttctgcacacatatttatacccacttgtaactatatacaaattaaggaggaggttatttagaaatttctagaaaaggggtggtaactttcaggtcattgccatggaaaggggcagtaatttccagctgttaccatgagaacggcaaactcacttggcaccagtgggtgtgtcttatggaggggtgcttttgcctgtttcagctagtctgtaatctggtccagagttcaagccctgcctcaggagtcaggtcccacctcctatctcaGTCTGGTCACAGCCCTAACTAGGCAGATGATCCCAATGTCAGCCCAAAGCCCAGCAGTCAGGCCCTCCTGTGATCTGCCTGGGGCACCCAGGAAGGGGATGGGGCATGCTGGGATGGGCCATGATGTGTTGGGCCAGAAGTCAGGCCCTCtaggttgaagtcctaaccccagtagctgtgaatgtgaccttatatggaaatagtgtctttgcagatgatcaagttaagattaaatcgttagggccagccttaattcactattattgtgattttaaaaaggggaaatttggacacagaaatgcacacaaggaaaaatccctgtaaagactggaactttggccaggcacggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccaacactttgggaggcagagacagacggatcacttgatatcaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatagcgaaacaccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaactagccaggcgtggtagcaggcgcctgtaatcacagctactccaaaggctgaggcagaagaattgcttgaacctgggaggaggaggttgcagtgagccgagattgtgccattgcactccagcctgggcaacaagagcaaaactccgtcacaaaaacaaaacaaaagaaagattacagctttggtgtcacaagccaagaaactaacagaagctgaagagaggcctgaaactaatccttccctagtgccttcagagggagcatggccctgctgagagagtataaatgggactcggcccacccccactaacgtattgttccatacgtgcccgctgaccactagaccttgcagcaccaccctccaggtgccatactcgctggccAGACCTTGCCAACTGTCTGAAATAAACTAAGATAAGCAGCATCCCGCCATAAGTCTTACTGACGGGAGTTGACTCCATCACCTGCTTGTGCACAAGGCCAGGAGAATGACCCTGGtcttatgataatactaaagtcctcacccagggaggggcttatctgccattttctgatcatgcaacgtatgtgttagcatgcgtctgagcacccttcactccaccccatacgtgcaatgacactcatgtagctcataaattatgtatgtcaccctccttaagacaccacaatgcattccccttggggagtcagccaagaattcttcctcctgcaccgtctctcttctgcccaaactttcggggcataagacttaataaagtcttgtctgggaagcttccttggcctcatatcaacttctgtttcatgggagcccaagaacatgtggttgggaacactgccaacatctttatttccaacttctggacttcagaattgtgagacaacaaatctctgtggttctaagctaaccattttgtggcactttgttacgacagccctaggaaacaaacgcaGGCACGTTCTGCTCCAACTGCCACTCTCTCCAGACCACAGCTCCTCCACAAGCCCACCCCATGAGAGGCTGAGGACAGAAGCAGGACCCTTCACAGGCCACCATCACTGCTGGATGGTCACCCCCAGCACTGACTGTCTGGAAGCTCCAGGCTCAGCTCTCAGTTTCCTGGAGCAAGTGGGAGGATGAGGACAAGGAGGAACGAGGGCACTGGCCTCCCAGGAATTGTCCCTGAGCCTCCATCCTGCTGTCCTGAAGCTGCCCCTGAACCTCCAACTTGCTGTCCCCAGAACTGTCATTGAGCCTACACCATGCTATCTCTAGAGCCCGGAAAGCCCAGGGCTGGACAAACCCCACCCCTCACTCCTCCTCTGGCCCCTTCTCCCAGCCATCAACACTTTGGAACAGCCATCAAGCCCCTTTTAATCTCTAGAAAGGTGCCTCAGTAAGGCACAGAGAGGTCACACCAGGTGGTCATGGTGCCTTACCTGTGTCCACTGGGCCCAGGCTGGCCCTTTAAGGGTATGAGGGCAGAACAGCTGAGAGACCACACCCCACTTCTCAGAGAGGTCAGGGATAAAGAAAAGGGACAATGGAAGGAAGAACTTGTGGCCAGGATGCTGAGGGTAGAGGCTGCTCCCCACAGGCACTGAGCAGAGGGGTTGAGGGGGGAGCCTCCAGCCTCCATCCAGACAGGACCTCTGACCGCTGCTAGGGGCCCCTTCTCAGGAGGTTCAGTCTCAGACAAGGGCTCCAGAAACTTCAGTCCATTTTCCCAAAATGGACATGATGCATCTGGCGAGTCAGGGACCTAGAATGTCCAGGACCGAGCCTTGCTGAGGACAGAAGGGAGCAACATGCCCTGGAGGTCCTCATGCAGCCCAGGCCTCTGGCAGTGACCAGCCAGCACCCAGGCAACTCCTTGCTGGGTCTCCAGGCCCTGATGGTCACAAGAAAGGCCACAGGCCAGGGCTGGGATGGGCCCAGAGCTCTGTGTGTTTCCTGGGAGGGCTGAGAGGTGCCATCCCCCATAGCAGCCCAAGGCACAGTAGTtgttgttgttgctgctgctgctgctgctgctcctgctcctgctgcCCTCTGAGTCTGGGGGAGCCGGCCTAGTCAGGGACGTGGGGGCCCAGTCCTCCTGTGGCAGATAGGCAAGCGTCTGTACCCTCCACTCCGTACACCCTGCTGGCAGCACATCCTCTGAGCTCAGGTTCCCCGGGAGCCTGGTCCCAGGGCCCTCCTGTTCCTCCTCCAGGGCCACAGATTTCCAAGGATGCGCTGGGCCACAAGTGAGCAGTGCAGTGGCCTCCTGGACGCAGGGCTCCAAGGCTCCCTGTGGGGTGCCAGCACAGTCCTGGCTCAACAGCACACCGGCCCTGTGGGCCCCCATCCAAGTCTGGAACAGAGCACGGGAGGAGGGAAAGGCTCAGGCAGCATGTTTAGAACTCATCCTGGGAGCAGCTGCCTCCTTTCTGGCAAGCCCAGCATCCCTCCTCCTCCAGGAAGCCCTCCTGAGGTCCACACCCAGAGGCCAAGCAGCGCCTGTGTCTTGGACATTCTGTCTTTCCTCCATGTGCCAGCCCAGCCTCATCACGGGACCCTGAGTCCCTTCAGGCTCCTCAGCACTCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCTGGTGCCCACGGCAGCCTGAACCAAGGTACAGATGGTGATATCTGCCCAGGACAGAGCCAGCTCCTGACAGCATGTGCCTCAGGGCCTTTCAGCAGCTGCAGAGACTGGGCATTCCCAacacacacacacacacacacaaacatacacaaacacacacacacacagagacacacacacacacaaacacacacagatacacacagacacacacacacgagacacacacacaaacacacacagacataaacacacacagacacacacacatatacacacacacacagacatacacacacacacacacagacacacacacgaacacacacagacacataaacacacacacacacacacacagacacacacacGAATCGCTGTCAGGACTGGTGACTTTCAAAGCACTCGGCTATGGCCAGCAGACCTGGATCCTTCTGTGGGGCCACAGGAGGCCCCCGCCTCCAAAAGGAAGCTGTTCCCTTGGTGGGACCAGGAGCCTCCATCCCATGCATCACACACACAACACCCTCCATCACTGCAGTGCTCCCTGGAGACCAACCTATGGCACCAGATCCTCACCCGCGGGTCTAAATAACCCGTGGCAGGTGTCCTAGTTCTCTAGGGAACAGCTGGTGCCCGCAACAGGATGACAGTCCAGGGAACAGTCACAATCTGACCTGCTCAGCCTTGTCGTCAGCTGCCCAGACTCCTGACAGTCACATCTACCACCTTGGGGAAAGAGGGAGACTCTGCCAAGAGCCAGATGCCCGGTTCATGGTTCAAATTATATTTTTGGACAAAAATCTTGAAAACTAGGCTCCTCATTGAGAGAGAAAAGGATTTTTCTGCATAGTAAGCTGGAGCCACAGTGTGAAGGGGACAGGGAGGGAAGATTCTGGAGAAGAGTGGTCAGCTTGGCCCAGACCCCAGGGAGGGGCCCTCACTGCCTCTTGTCCTTTGCCCAAAGTGAGGAGTCTGAGGGGAAAAACCAGAGACCACTCACTGGAGCTCTCCCTCTCCCCCTCCTCCCACCCAGGGGGCATGAACCAACAGCCCAGCAGGGAGGGGAGGGGCTGATGCAACCCCCAAGTTGCTCACTGGTGCCTGGGCTGTAGGAGCCCAACATGAGTGGAAGGGGGGGAAGTGCAGAGCCCACTCCTCAGCTGTGGTGCCATCATGTGATCCGGGGAGACCAGGGGACCAGGCAGAGCAGGAGCCCAGAGGCAGTGAGAGCCCCAAGGGCAGCACACACACCACAGACCCTTCCCCATGGCCACAGGACAGACACCTTCGCAGAAGGAGGAGGTGAGGCACATGGTGGGTGCAGAAAGCTGCAAACCAGAGGGGACAGAGATAAGTCATGAGAAATTTACATTTTTTCAATCAACAATGGAACTAGAGACCTGAGAACAAAAAGAAATCAGCAATGGAAAATAAAGCTAATTTTTCCCCATTTGAGATCCGCGTATAAATTGAAATTCACTGAATATACAAAAAAGGCTCCAAGCACTGACAAGCCTCCCATACTGGCCGCCAACCCTCATGAAAGCCAACATCTTGGGCAGGCCAGAGCTCTGGGCAACCCCTGCCCCCCATGTCCTGCTGTGGTCTCTGCACACACCTGGAAGTTCCCATTGTGTACACTGTAGAGGGGCTGGAAGAACATCGCTGGAGAGGGCACGTTCTGGTAGAAGATTCTCTTCACCCTGAGGCCAAGAGAGGCCAGTCAGAGGCCTATGGCGACCCAGGTGGCCTGAGGTCACTGCAGAGGCTGAGCTTCCTTCCATCAGCAGGAGGCCCACCTCGTCCCTGCCACTGCCTCTCTCCCATCTCATCACATTCCAACCCACTCTCAGGGCAGGACCCAACTGGGCCTCCTTGCCTAACGGCCGCATAGAACTGATTTATACTGAGGCGCGCGTCCTTTACAGCGTGAGCTGCGATGGCGGGTTCAGAACGGGGAGTTACTAGCTGGGTCCTCAGATCACAGAGGGAGCCAGCACCTCCAGGAACCCTGTCTTTGCCATCAGCAGAAGGTCTGTGGCTCCCACCCCACCCAGTGTCTCCCTGAGCACCAGACTTGCTGCCAAGGATCCACTGACCCTCCCACAAGGATGTCACCTGGGGCTCCAACCCAACAGGTGCAAATAGACCTCGCCAACCTCCCCGCAAGGCTGTGCCCCATTTCCCCACCTCAGGGTTCACCACTCATATCTCATCCACCCACATGTCCCTTCTATTTCCCCTCATGAGACCCTGCAATTCTCTCCACTTTTCTCTATCTCCACTTCTTTCACTGGCTCATGCCAAATCGTCTCCCTGTGGGCACCTCACTGGCCCCCATTGGCCTCCAGCAGGTCCCCCATGTCCCCTTGTCCCAGCAATCTATTCCTCAAAACATAAACTAGGTTGTGTCACACAGTTTTACACTTTCCTTTGCTCCAAGGAGAAGCGAAGCACCCTCCCACTTAGCCCCACCCAACACCCCTCTCCCCACACCCTCTTCCTCACATCCTCGGCCTGACATGGCCCCTGCACTCCCTCTTGTAACCTGACATGTGGTGCATGAGGCGTGACGGTTTATTTAAGGAGGGTCCTTGTCCATCTTGTTCTCTAAGGCATCGGCCAGGGTGAGAAGAGGGTCCTGTGTACACCAGATGCCCCAACTGACCTTTCATATAACGTGTGAACAAATGAACAAACCAAGCTCCTCCAGAGGCAGGAGACTAGGACCTCCGGCTCTTGATCTCGGTGACTCTGGGTCTGGTCGGGACCAAGCTGCCCTTATCTTCAGCCTCTGCCTCAGACCCCCCTTCCCTGCTCTCCCCTGGCAAGTTGAGAACCCTCTTCTGGACCAGGGTGGAGACTCGAAAAGCCCACCCCGTCCAGGTCCAGGCAGTGGAGAGGGGAGGGGAGGAACCAGACAAGGGCGGCCCTTGACGGCCCACCCACcacacactcacacatgcacacagtcacacatctgcacacatacactaacatgcacactcttgcccgctcacacatgtacacacacgcacacaTCAGCCACCTACCTGGGCGACAGCTTGAACAGGAGGTAGGTCGGGCCAGTCAGCAGGAGAAAGATGGACACAGCAACAAGGGTGTTGCCTGGCCACCCCCAGGGTGGGATCAGAGGGCCCGTGGGCAGGAAGGGCCCAGGGCTGTGAGCAGCCTCAGTGCCAGGAGGCTCCCCCCAAACCCACCTGGCAAAGGTGCGCCCTTTAGTGCCCTGGGCCAAAGTGGAAGGTTTGTGATGAGCCTTGGAGGTTTGTGTCATCTGCTGAAGGACCTTGTGATGGGCCTTGGAGGTTTGTGTCATCTGCTGAAGGACCTTGTGATGGGCCTTGGAGGTTTGTGTCACCTGCTGAAGGACCTTGTGATGGGCCTTGGAGGTTTGTGtcacctgctgaaggaccttgtgtgagccccactcctgggcctcactcttcccatctgccacatggtgggtcataaGGTCCCTGGGCCGTCTCAGCACTGCAGTGCGCAAGGGTCAGCCCAGCCCTCACTAAGGACACTGAGGTCATGTCCAGCCTCCAGGCAGGAGCACCAGCCCTGGTGTGCAGCCCTGCCACCCTCACTGCTAAGAGGAGCCACTGACTATGGGTTCCCAGGAAGCCCCAGAGTTGGCAGGTGTTTGTTTCCTCCCTGCAGACCTCAGAGCTTCCGAGGAAGGGGGTCAAAGTGGGGCATGGCTGCCTCAGGGAGGGCCTTCCAGGAGGCTGAAAGGGTGCAGGGGTGAGGTGATCAGGGGAGAGGATGCCCAGCCCAGACTCTGGAAGTGCAGCAGCCGTAGCAGCGACCACCTTGTCTCTGGGGAGCCTGGAAGCACACGGGCTGGCTACACTCGCTCCACTGGCCTGTGTAACGCTCCTCCTGTGCCCCGTCATCCTCCAGCATGGCCATCTGGACACGCAGCCCGGCCTCATGGATAAAGCCAGGGTCCAGCTCAAAGGCTCCAAGTATGAGCCAGGTCACCCCAACGATGTGATCCCTGTGCTGGGCCCACTGTGGGGGTGGCGACAGTTAGCAGGTGCTGAAGGTGGGGCTGGGTCCCCCTCGAGAatacacacacgcacacgctcacataacacacaggaacacatctgtgttcacacaagcacactcagcaggttcatgtgcacacacacacggagaaggcacactcacagtcacacgcagacacagctgcgtttgcccacaaatacacataggcacacacaGGCAAACGTGTCTACAGGCACTTTCACACTCATCACACTTGCATCACACTCATAAACACAAGTGTGTGCACAGAAGCAACTCACcacactcacacacacactcatacctgtaggcatgcccaagtgcactcacgtatacaaccacgaggcacacactcatgtacaaacacaaacacgggcacacttacatgtgcacacacataaacacaggagcactcaccctactcacatacacacacgaggcacacacaTGTGCATGTCAGCATGTGCACACACACGTCTGGCTCTAGCTCCTCCCCTCCTCTTCACCCCAAGTTGACCTCTCCTTATTTAGAGTGGGGAGCCTGCCCTGGACTGCTGCTCCCAGGAGGGAGGCCCCCAGGGGAAGCCAGCCAAAGCGTTACCTCCCAGGCCTCTTCCTGCCTCTCGAAGGCCATAGGTCATAGCTGAGAAGTGTGGTCCTCGACTCCAAGGCAGGACCGATGCTCCAGGTCAGGATGCAGTGGCTAGAGCTGATGTTGCCCTGCAAGTCAGAGTGGGTCCAGCTTCACTGGAACAGAGTGAGTCTACGTAAGGCTGAAGCCCCATAGGTCTGGGTGTGTCAGTCAGCACATCCAAGACCGGGGATCTGAAAGATTCCCAAGGGGCATGGTCAAGGCCCTCTCAGACCAGGCACCTCACTGGGAGACTGGTCCAGAAAACCTTCGGGAGGGACAGGACAGCAATGACTTCCTCTGGCCTCTGCAGCTAGACTAGGTGGTTTCTAAATCTTGCTTCCCCTTTCCTTCACAGTCTGCTGCTGGCAGTCCTTCCTGGTATGACCGAAGTGCATTTCACATGACTCAAGTGCCAGCCCCTGCCCCAACTAGCAGCCCTGCATCTTTATTTTCTACAAAACCCTGCCCCTGCCGTCACCACGTCGGCCCTCCCCTCCCAGGGGCCAAGCCTGCCCCCAGCCCTGGATCTCACTTGGCTGGGACTGAGAACACTCACTGGGCCTCAGGGGTCACAGGCTGCAGGGCCCTGCTCCCAGCCCCCAGGCAGCCAGGATGTTCTTGCCAAAGGGCCCTGCCCCAGGCCTATAGCCGCTGCTCACCGTGTCTCCAGGGCAGGTACTCCGGGTCCACCAGGCTGACCTGCTCCCTCCCAGACACGCATTTGGAAAGTGATGATGCAACTGTCGGACGGCAGGAGCACTGCCTCGGGCGGCAGCACGACGGTGCACTCACTGCCTCGCAAGGTGCACTTACGTGTGCCACCAGGAGCCTGGTTGCTGGAAAGGGCATGTGTCAGCACCACGGGGCTGCTACACTATCCTGGCATATCTGCTGCCATCCTGGGGACCTCACCCTCATCCCTGTCCAGGTGGGCATGGCCCTCCAAGGTCACCTGGTGAAGAGGAGCCCGGGGCTGGAGCCCTGTCCCAGCTCTGGGGCAGACCAGTGGCAATCGATCCTGAGAATGTTGTTGGTGAGGCAGGTGGAGGTTCCAGCCCTTGGCCCTGGAGACAGTGACGGTCGGGAGCCCACAGTGAGTGCTCGAGGGCAGAGCTGAGTTGGGGGGTTGCGGGGGGATCTGACAGCTGACACCCTAGCAGGGCAGTCACCAGTGAATGATCCCAGAATCTGTCCAAGAAAGCACTGAGAGGCCTGGGAAGTGATGGGCTCTGACCCGTGGTACACAGGCAAGTCAGACCCAGAGAGGCGTCAAGAGGGTGAAGGAAGGGAGACTAAGGTCTGTCCAGGGACTGAAGATAGGGAGGTAAAGGAAGCAAGAATAGAGACTGAGGTCCAGGCTGAACCCTAGAGGACATGCCCCAGCACAGTTTGGGCCAAACCTTTCCCTAGGGTCTCAACATCGGACAAACCAGTCCCCCAAACATGCCCTAGTTCTCCACACACCTCATACAGACACTAGTGCCCAGCCCTCACCTCGTCCATCCCCCGAGACAGAGACTCCCGAGCAGACACAGGTGCAGACGCAGGTGCAGGCCAGGAGCCAGGTGCCCATGTCTTGCCTCAGGGCCTCACTCTCCAAGGTCCAGCCTGCAAGGGGCTGGGCTGAGGGCCTGTGCGAGCCATCCCTCTCTGGAGGGGTGCTCCCCATGAATTGCTCCCCAGCGGAGTGCTCAGCGGGTCTCCATCTGCACTCACACAGTGTCCTGTGAAAGACGCtgggcaccactgcccagggtttactgataaggaactgaagctcagaaaggccgattgacCCAGCTGCAGACTCGTGGCTGCAGGGTGTCAGATGCACCCTCAAACTTTGATCCGGACTCTGACTTAGCCAGGTCTCCACGTCCACCAAGAAGGCTCCTCTCTAGGACGGGCACCCTCTGCCAGCCCATGCCCTGTCCCTGGGCCCAGGCCCCATTCTGCAGGAGGGGTCAGGATTGGGGGAACCAGTCACTCCTTACAACCACCACAGGTGCATTTTCAATGAAaattctcacaacagcgctgtaaggaagaagcactgtccccgttcacaggctgagtcccaaggagtgaagcagggaaaatgacttgcccagggtcacacagatggCCTCTATGCAttctttttttcttctctctctctttctttttttcttCTCTGtctctctcttttttttttttttttttgagacggagctccctctgttgcccaggctggaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcggctcactgcaacctccgactcctgggttcaggtgattcttctgcctcagcctctcaagtagttgggattacaggtgcacactgccacccagttaattttttttgtatttttagtagagacggtttcaccgtgttggccaggctggtctcaaacccgtgacctcaagtgatccaccagcctcggcctcccaaagtcctgggattacaggagtgagccaccatgcctagccTCTATGCCTTCTCTCTCCCTTTTGTCTTAAATAAAGACCCATCCCAGGATTCTGCCCCAGGAAGGTGGACGAAAGTGGCAGTGGGGTATCGATGCAACAGACAGCACTTCCAGAGCTCTGTTGTACCCCTGTTCCAAGATGCCTCCAAGCGAGAGTACACCAGAAGGGCAAAGCCCTCTATGCTGGAGTGTTAGGCCTGAGCCCCAAGATTCCTGGGGTAGCCAGAGGCTGGCTGGAGATGAGGGGCTGGGTGTCAGGAAGCTCTTGAGTGTGGGAAGGCTACTGACGCCCTATCACCCTATTTGCAGCTCCAGATGATACACCAATAGCTTCTAAGCAGGAAGCAGGGCCAGCCTGGTTACACAAGACTGACTAGTGTTAAGGAGGAGAACAAAAACAGACATACACACAGACTACAGCATGCACGCCttgttttttctttttttttgagacagaggctagagtgcagtggcacgatctcggctcactgcaaactctgcctcctgggttccagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggtgcgcaccaccactcccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacagggtttcaccatgttggtcaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcatgatccgcccgcctcagtctcccacagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccatgcctggccCAGCATGCATGCTCTTAAGGAACTCACACACTCTCAACAGGCAGTAGGCACTACTCTAACCCCACTCCTGCAGCCTACCCAGGTACCCACAGGACAGTCCCCTGTTAAGACTGATGATCGGGAAGACTCACCCTTCCCTAGAATGGAGCGTGCAGTCTGGCACCACCGGCCACAACATGAAACACCGTGGCAAGTTCTCTGCAGCAACGTCTGTCCCTTCTTGCAGCAGCTACTGGAAAGGTGGGAATGGGGAAGACAGTCAGCCTGCTCTTGGGATATCTGAGGGCGGGGTTGGAGTGACCACCAGGACCTGGGGAAGCACAGGCACAACAGCCACAGCTGAGAGCTGACCCAGGCCCCAGGATGGCCGACCGCTGCCCCAGCAGTGGAGAAACACCCACGTCGGTGTAGAATCAGGCCAGGCCAGCCACAGGCTAACCCAGGAGCAGACGGCTTGAGAGCAGGGAGTGGGGCGGCTCCAAGCTCAGCAGTCCTCATTTCTAGAAAGGGAGAGGGGATGGTAGGGCAAGACCCACATGTGACACCTGAGAGCTACAAAGGAGGAGCCCAGGACACTCCCTAGGGGAGCATTAGAGTGTTGGGTATAGCGACAAGGGGGTATGGCCATCTGAGGGGAAGGTCTCTGCTTTTCCTCTGCACTGAAAACTCACAGCTGCACCTGGTAAGCTGAgcagggcagggttaccaccctcctacagataaggagactgaggctcagagacctaggacctgcccaaTACCTGGCTCCTGACACCTCTGTTCTTGGCACATTCCCATCAGCTTCTACACAAGCCTGTGAACTTCCCGAGGGCAGTGCCTGCGAGGCACCACTCAGCACATGCCCCAGCAGAAGGCACCACAGTGCTTTACAAATAGGGTGGAGCTACAGGCAGATCTACCTTCCCCCATCCTTGACCACAGGACCAGGAAGTCAGGGCAGGTGCACACACCCCCACCCACATGCTCCGTGCTCCTCTGTGTCACCAGGGAGGCCTCACCACAGCTCAGACACCAGGTCACAGGACAGTTGTGAGAGCAAGAGGGGAAGCCAGTGTCTGCCACCTGGGAAAGAGCTGCCCCGACACCCCCAGTCCTGCTAGGGAGCCTGGCTGACATCACTGCCCAGGACACCCTCTCCTGCACTGGGTCTGTGGACATAGCCTCCAGCCCATGGTCACTCTGGGCCCTTCTTAGAGCCTCACCTGTTCCATGGCCTCAGCATCAAGGCCTGGCCCAGATGACCACTGGGCCTCACGGCCTGCCTGCCCTGGTTCCCTGGGCCACTGTGAAGCTGTGCGCTGCCCTGCAGCTAGACCCCTCCCTCAGACCACAGGCTCTGCCACACCCACGGGAGGGTCTTCAGGCAAGCTCAGCCATTCACCCTCCCTTAgctgggcagggtggcccacgcctatagtcccagctccttgggaggctgaggtgggaggatctcctgagcccggcaatttcaggttgtggtgagtcgttattgcgccactttactccaacctaggtgacagtgaaaccctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCaactgcagcaagaatattcccaaagatgagacactaatgcagcaaaaaaggaagtgtaaatatgtgttaaaactggcggcggtaaaagcatgtgtggggcaggaaaaagcttaggtggacaaatgtacgaagcttatgaaaacataaagtgcttaaagtgtatggttttcactccatcatcattattattattattattattatcattattattattgagacggagtctcactctgtcacccaggctggagtgcaatgacacgatctcagctcactgcaacctctgccttccaggttccagtgattctcctacctcagcctccagaatagctgggattacaagctgtgccaccatgcccagcatgagccactgcacccagattaatttttgtatttttagtaaagatgaggtttcgccgtgttcgccaggctggtctcgaacccctgacctgaggtgatccgccaacctcagcctcaaagtgctaggattacaggcgtgagccactgtgcctgacttcactgcattattcaacagcaagaactctgtgggaaatatctgaatccattatcagtggtgaatctattgactctatcagtggtgtcaatggtatacttcatttgctctcctggatgtaaccagcattcacagatgcacatttgcaattgatttcaatgacagggaacactaactttgaaccccaatgaagcaaaatggcatccactcttctcagtaatagacccacattacaaaaattaaactcaattattatgttttgaattttgtctataatcacattctgaggttaaattCaaaaaaattaaataaaaagtataaaataaaaaaaattGCCTATAAAAAACATATGGAAGTTaccagcctgggcaacatggcaaagccctgtctctacaaaaaaatatatataaaaattaggccagacgcagtggctcatgcctttaaccctagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggcggatcacttgaagtcaggagttcaagccccgcttgaccagtatggagaaaccccgtctctactaaacatacaaaataagccaggcatggtagcacatgcctggaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatagcttgaacccgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagatcatgacattgcactccaccctgggcaacaagagcaaaactccatctcaaaaataataataataataaataataataataataataataacaacaagctgggcatggtgcgcacctgtagttccagccactcgggaggctgaggtgggaggatcgcttgagcccaggaggtccaggctgcagtgagctgggattgcgTtggaacaggaattaaaagaaattaaagaatgtgtaagcagaaactcagttgtatgtaagaaaacccagttcccctgagaaagagaaagagctggagtcctttaaaaattgactgcctgtttttccgtggctagtgagccttatctctcctcctttcccaggcatcgtgaagaccctgcttctctagccgtgcagctgcaaggtcactagacagataaactcaagtcgcaaaacatgtttttctttgaaaagtgagaaatgatgtaatgcatgtctcaattaattaaataactaccttcgtttctcacttctgtaatatgcttctccctgcacagatctcccaccaccccacaaaatacttaaaaggtaactctttgctcagggctcagtcctttggatgttaatccgactgggctggtgctcctaaataataaatatcctcctcaaccccatcagtctctctgattccttatcaatcccgaaacatttctgggggttcatccgggattggagacgacagatttactttctcctttgcctgcggcactagagccccagggccaggggagacccagcatccaaggtgcaccacgggggagcttcacccggatagaagccggcactccccacgtcccggcgccctgtccggcagcgcaacggaaccagggatggggctgtaggatgataccagcacttcgggaaccatggtaaggagtaaggtaagtaagcagacaaggaccaaggcaggaaagcctgtcccacagggatgaatgcgagcttgatcacctcccagggaccaaccactaatccaacccagagcagctgggggcggcaggagtggcctgccaatttggatgaacctcgcgtccccactaacaaagtgaaagtggttcactggatctgcagacagcgactgggagtgtgtgggtgtgtgtgaacctacccgggacatgagagaggctagtttcctccaataaggagtcctggggtaggagtggtgtgtgtatgtgtgtgaatgtaggagcctaactaggctcacccgggacacgagagaggctcgtttcctccaataaggagtcctggggcaaaggaggtgtgtgaaagtgtgtgaaagagacggtctcgggagaggccaatgcagggagtgacatggggaagcacagatcccttagtgcaggctgtgtgctccgaggcgagtgcgggtgaaatcagacgtaggacgttgcatatggcagataagaccagctctacagccgcagcaggctgtgagaggggaaggcacattcctggctaagcagcgtccgaaactccaggaccaggtctggtggacccaagagtgaaagtgagtgagagtgtgccacaagggaggaaatgggaggggaagtgtctaaaccaactcctttgaagtgcatgataaagaactttaaaaaaggatttagaggtgattatgggatgaaattggatgctcaaaagttaaggacatactgtgaaatagattggtctgctttcaatgtggggtgaccctctgaagctacaatagacagggaattaattggccgtgtgtttaaggtggtcattggagttggaggacaaccaggatacccagaccagtttccctgtatggacacttggctcagtgtggcacaaacttgccccaggtggctacagccctgcctagagggatattacaaggcatcagtggcccaggcagcccaaccaaaggaaaaaagaaaaaccaaaaatagaaacaaagagatggctcagtgtatagctgacgcactagcaagaaagtaaccctggatttgctagagggtgtggccaaggaagaggccaaggaagagggcagacaagacagggagaggaagctggtcccggctggacaggaaccaatgtgcaaggtgcagacaaatgggccactggaaacatgagtgtccccaaaaggaaacggatggagatgatggtcaatggtctaacacccaagtgtggcattcagttgctggtcatagtgcttcaaaggcagatcctgatctgactggcttagcgggggctgagaattttgaggactgagacagactgggctccatctttttaggccccagggagcctgtggtctctatggaagaagggggccaattaatggatcttttggtcaatactggtgctgatttctctgtggtaactcgcccaattagcacccacaaaaagaactatgctgctatcatgggagctactagggccaaagacgtgacacctttttccaaatacaggagatgtgttattggaggacaagaagtgcagcatgagtttctatatatgccaaattcttcagtgcccttgttgaggagagacttgctccaaaaactgcaggcacaaatttcctttacacctaaagggaatgtgaccctggagatagggaagccaaaggcaatggtattgactcatggctaagtgaatgcagccctgcctagcagtttattgtagaacgtcacagcccacgccaagagagaaatcagctgcgctggcagctacagagttaaagggaaagtcacagAGGCTTGTAGCACCACTGAGCCAAAAGCAAAAGTAAAAATCAGCTGCCCTGGAAGCTATGGGGACGAATGAAAAGTCTCAGAAAAGAAAGAGAAAAACCGTTCTGCAAGAACCACAGGAGGGAATAGAGACCACCCCTCCCTATATTCCAATCTGCCCCCCTTTACCAAGGCTAACTGCACCTAAGGAGTCAAGTTCAAACAGATACATGCTCCCAGTCTCACCTGAGAGGGAGAAATCAGAGCTCCGGGAAGTTAAAGTGAAAGGCTCAAAAAGTCAGGCAGGCCGTCTCAGGCCCGGCCATGCCCAAGTTAAACTTACGCCTCTTCAGAGGACaagagaacccccaccaggatccgatgatgcagcccagcttcagcacctacaaaggtgccaagaaacatttctgcaaaggctaaaggaaggtaaaagagaaaggcaaccaatataaaaaatctcagaggacaggccgggcatggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggcggatcgcaaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaacccgtctctactaaaaaaatacaaaaaaattagccgggcgtggcggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggcagagctggcagtgagccaagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccgtctaaaaacacacacacacacacacacacacacaaaatctcagaggttctccagggtgcaaataaaagcaccagtcagttttataatagacttcgtaaggcattttggttgtacactccgtttaaccctgaggctgctgaaaatcagcacatggtgaatacgacatttgtaaggcaggcccaaggagatatcgggcataaattacagaagttggaagctccgcaggcgtgaatgctactcagcttattaaagtggctaccaaggtgtacattaacggagatcaggaggctgatcagaggcttaagaaaggctaatttactagcagcagcgcttacaggaagagaagctagctttgcaagaaggcatggacgcgggcgtgaatgcagtcgtggaaaaagctaaTAAACtgactttagagactaaataccctaaaccaagctacactgctcctcatcaagtcagtgccaagaggcccccttcattgctgtgtggacttggtagataaagtgttctcaagccagagagatgtaccagatcggcccctcggggactcagacattgaatactctactgatggaagcaatttcatactaaagggagtccaccaagctgggtacgcagtggtgacttcggactcagtagtaaaggtgcagtctttgcctacagaaacttctgcttagaaatcagagctgatagctctgacaagaactccctggctaggaaaagaccaaaagacaaatatttacaaagattccaaatatgcttctgccactttgcatgttcatgaggctatttacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagccttttaactactgaaagtaaaaaaaaaaaaaagcacaaggaagaaattttgcagctcttagatgctgtatgagccccaaaagaggtggccatgatgccctgcgagaggcaccgaaaagcaagaacaccaaaggctaaaaaaaatagaaaggcaaaaaggcaaagcaggctgcagtgacaactccaccttctaaagaggaggcctcagctatgcctctcctcccggagattccctcccagagatcccaagcacccctgcaaataaaagggcttggtttgcccagaaaaataagaactacattgaaggaggacggtaaaattctccaatgggaggccatacctgaaatggtgaccccgatttgtagaacagttccaccaaggaactcacatgggaaaaaaaacaaacagcactaaagacattattaaggcatcatttctatgtgccatggctcgctgctattactcaagccatttgtaaacaaacagtgtttaacttgtgttcagaacaatccataacaagggcctgcttggcccccaggagttcaggaaacatgagccagccatgccctgtgaaaagctgcttatggacttcgccaaattgccctgaaaggggggctatcagtgcatgtgggtgttcatttgcaccttttcaggataagtcgaggccttctccatctggacagagaaggcactagaagtgactcaggtgttgttaggagacgttattcccagatttggactgcctctgagatcagacaatggaccaacatttgtggctgcaagagttcaggacttaactagactattaaaaataaagtggaaattgcgtacatcctacaggccacagagctcaagtacagtgcacgaaccagacactcaaacagctgctgaaaaaattttgtcaagaaactcatctaaaataagatcgggtctcgcccatggtcctcctccaagtcaggtacacccccaccaaacaaactgggtattcgtcccgtgaaatattgttcagaaggctgcccccaatcattaatcaaattagaggggatttaaaagagttaggagagctaacccttagaagacagatgcactcctaaaggagtgacaatgcaagagatgcatggctaagtattaaaaaaaaaaaaaatgcctataagtctaacagacccagtacaccctttcaaacctagggtctgtgtttaggttaaaaaataaaatccaaccactctaggacccatataggataggccccatattgtgatcAGGAACTGATCAACATGTTCAAACAATAAGAAAATAGTCATATTAAATGTAAAGATTGGTGggacacagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttaggaggccgaggcagacagattatctgaggtcaggagttggagaccagcccgaccaacatggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaatgcaaaattacccaggtgtggtggtgcatgcctgtagtcccagctgcttgggaggctgagacaggagaatcccttgaacccggaaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgaattcgtaccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagaacaagactctgtcttaaataaataaataaataaataaaataaataaataaataaataGTATCTTATACATTTAAAGCAACCCGAGGAAGCAAATCAGGGGAGGTTCAAAAAAATGAATAAGGGAGTAAGAATAGGAATAAAGAAAGAAATTGAAATCCCGGTGATTAACATTTTCGTAGCCTGTTCAAATGTAAGTATGTAGTCTATTCTGGGATCACTGTGATTTGGGGTTTGCTTTCTACCTCTTAAGCTATTTAAAACACTGAGAAGGCAATATTCCAACTTTCATTTAAATGAAATATTCAGAATTTTGattaaaataaataataaattaCACAAGTTTACAAGTAACAGTTAAATATTTAGGGACATGTACTAAGTTTTACAAACAGTACAAATATTTAAGAGTGTTGATTGGGAGTAAGGGAATGTCAACTGCCAATAAAGTGGAAGATGAAAGAATAGGACTTTACACAGAGCATATTTAGTTATGGGTCTCTGTCTCCTCCCCACACAGAAAAACTCCCAGACATTCATGACTTCATCCACCCTGCCTGGCAGATAGGCCATATTTCCTGACCCCCTGGCTCTTCACCTCAAAAGGTTTATCTTTCCACCACACTAGCAAAGACCCTCAGGACACACAACTCATACTGCCAGCTAAGCATCTACCCCGAGGGACAAGGCAAGCACACACTAGGGCAGCTGGGCCATCCTGGCCCTAATCCCTCCAGCGGTGTCCACACTGAGCATTGCAGCACTTGTAGAAGGTGGTCATCGGCTCATCTGCAGAGCGGGTCTGAAGCTGCATGAAGTAAGCACGAGGATGTTCGCATTTGGGACACGACTCTGGCAATGAGAAAAAAGAAGTGACCACATTTAAAAAAAGATGCTACTCATGGCTGTCAAAAGTAGGTATTACTTAATATGtgggaggccaaggcgggcggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcgagaccatcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaattagccaggcgtggtggcgggcgcctttaatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggcagagattgcagtgagccaagatcgtgccactgcactcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTAGGTATTACTATAATAtcttttttttttttttttgagatggaatctcgcagtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggggcgatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcatgtgattctccttgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacagttgcccgccaccacacccggctaatttttttgtatttttagtagagacaggttttcactatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcatgatccgcccacctcaacctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgtgcccagACTACTTAATATCTTTAAAGATGGTAAAGAACCTCCCTGCTCATTTGATCCCCCTTGACAAGGGTAGATCTACAAACAGTGATGTCATTCCCACCACGCTGTAACACTAAGGGAATCTGGGAGACCTGTGACTCACACACTCTCCCCCTCCCCTCCCTGAGTCCCATGGTTCTTCTCAAATCCAGCTGAAGGCTGGTTGGAAACGTAACATGGAAGGTGACtgttttggtccattttgtgctgctgtaacaaaatgcctaagactaagtaatggttagatggtggaagagttttgaagtaaatgctgggaaaagcctgcattgtcaagaattgagcattaagggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaggactttgggaggccaaggcaggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaacacaaaaaattagccaggcgtggtgtcgggtgcctgcagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaagagaattgcgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcttgggcaacagagtgagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaagaattgagcattaagggcgattctggtgtgggctgaaaagaagagaagaggccgggtatggtggctcttgcctgtaatcccagaactttgggaggctgaggcaggtggatcacgaggtcgggaggtcaagaccagcctagccaagatggtgaaaccccgtctctaccaaaactacaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcaggtgcctgtaatcccagctactagggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggcagcataggtttgcagtgagcagagatcgtgccactacactccagcctgggcaaaagagactccatctcaaaaaaaaagccaggcacagtggctcaggcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggccaacagatcacctgaggtcgggagttcgtgaccagccttatcaacatggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcgcatgcctgtaatcccagctactcatgaggccgaggaaggagaatcacttgaacctgggaagtggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcacaccattgcactcTTCAAAGCGATTTCACTTTGAGAAACTTATCCTACACCTGACAGAAATGGCTTCAAACACTCTATTTCTGACATTAGGTAAAAAGAttttttttttttagacagtctcactcaggctggagtggcatggtctcggctcactgcaacctccgcctcctggttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctaggactacaggcacgcgccactgagcctggctaatttgttttttttttttttttgagacggagttttgctcctgttgcctgggctagagtgcaatagcacgatctcagctcactacaacctccgcctcacaggttcaagcgattctcctgtctcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcaggcaccaccacgctcagctactttttgtatttttagtggagacggggtttcaccatgttggccaggatggtctcgatgtcttgacctcgtgatccgcccacattggcctcccaaaatgctgggattataggtgtgagccaccgtgccAGCTGCTAACTTTTTCACATAGCAGAtttgtatgttcttttttttgacagagtttcgttcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatgatgcaatcttggctcactgcaacctccacttcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgtctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggtgctgccaccacgcctggctaattttttgtatttttagcagaaatggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgagattgcaggcgtgagccaccacacccagccTATATGTTCTTTTATAGGGGGAAAACCACAGTACTAACCATCAGTTATCTCTCTCACCTCTCAATATAACTTACATTTACGTCTTCCCCTTTCCTCTCCTGGCCACATCTATGTCTACCAGACATGCAATAAACATGTATTTTACCCAATCTGCAGTTTAATGCTCACTGGTATTAACTTCTAAAAATCTATATTAGAAGCGtgtattagtccgttctcacactgctatgaatacctgagactgggtaatttatatagacaaaaggggttttgtttgttttgagacagagtctcactcttgtcaccgaggctagagtgcagtagtgtgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaagcaattctcgtacctcagcctcctgagcagttgggtctacaggcgagcgccaccacacccggctaattattttatctttaatagagacagggtttcaccatgcgggccaggctggtctggaactcctgacctcaagtgatctgcctaccttggcctcccaaactgctgggatttacaggcgtgagccacgacacccagccaagaaaagaggtctaatttactcacagttctgcgtggctggggatgcctcaggaaacctacaatcatggcgaaaggaacctcttcacagagcagcaggagacagaatgagtgcgagcaggggaaacgcaaacgcttataaaacgatctgatcttgtgagaactcactcactatcaggagaacagcatggggggaaaccgctcccatgattcaattacctcccactgggcccctcccaggacacctggggattacggaaactataattcaagatgagattagggtggagacacagccaaaccatatcaAACAGAAAGAACATACTTTTTTCCTTAGACTCTTATTTTTATTAATCTACTCATCATTGCCATTATCAAAGCTATCACCTGTTGAGTGCCTCTTATATACCAAGCACGGTATAATTCACTttatgctctcgcggtctacgaatatggattagccccagagaagtcaagagacccaaggaaggtcctacaacaatacaaggttgccctgagaatctgacccgggcctgtatgactccaaggcTGGCACAAATATTGCTTGTCTGACAGATTATTAAACAGTAACAAATACAAATAAATTATTCAAGAACCATTTTCTATTTTTAGAAACCTACATCATTTATATGACATCATAGACTCTGCCAAGCAGTGGCATCAACAGCCTCATAATTATCCACAGTTTAGCAACAGAAACAGTTTTCCCTCTTACCTGCAGTAGAGTCAACATTCTCCCAGGCAGCTGCTCCACCAAGCACATCATCCACTTCTTTCAGTTTTGGGTACTTCCGATTTGTTACCTAACAAAAACAACACTTCAGACTCCAAGTAACTGAATAGCGCAAACCTGGGCTGCCAAACCTTAAATTTCAGGATTACATAAGAGTTCACTCggctgggcgtggtggctgacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaagacgggcggatcacgaggtcaagagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagcccggcgtgttggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcacaccactgcactccagcctgggctacggagcaagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaacaaagaGTTCACTCTTCCCGTAGTTTCAAACTCCAAACTCCCACAACACAGTACAAACTGGAGTAGCATGCAAACATTAAGACTGACGTAGCACCAACATATTCTAACTGCTAAAAAGTAAAGGTATTCTggccaggcgtggtggctcacgcctataatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcaagcggatcacctgaggttgggagttcgagaccagcctggccagcgcggtgaaaccccgtctttactaaaaatacaaaaattagccggggatggtggcaggcgcctgtaattccagctactcgggaagccgaggcagaagaattgcttgaacccgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagattacgccattgcactccagcctgggaaacagagcgagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggtcgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggcagatcacgaggtcaggagaccgtcctggctaacacacggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaatcagccaggggtggtggcggacgcctgtagtcccagctaattgggaggctgaggcaggagagtggcgtgaacccgggaggcagagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgggactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaacaataaaaaaaaaTAAAGAAAGCACACAATACATTACATAATATATTAGAAGGTAATAAGCCCTATGGAAACAATTACAAAGGGAAGGAGAATAAATTGGAAGgaggggctgaaatttaaaatacggtaaagacaagaccaatgagtaaggtggcgatctaggggaagagtgaactgagcaacagcaagtgcaaaggccctgctagcaccatgagcacgatgagagatcgtccaggaggcggtgttgatgcggcaaagggcaacaggaagggcattaggacttgaaatcggagacgcacgcaggggagggagtcagtgtcggaacctggtaggccctgggagaactccggcttttcgtctgcgtgagctggagaagagccgaaggtttctgcgcacagcacggacctgcgtgcctcagctttaaggaaatcaccgtggccgccgctgtgaacgcagagaagggcgcgagcgtgggagcaggaacccaaggcggtgggaaacggtggggctttctgagtgtattggaaagtagagcccacagatctgctgcagaccagaaaggggcgcgagaaagagcggacagaggcagacgccggggctggcggcgatggagcagcagtcggaggacgCGGAAGGCCTGCGAGAGTCGCCCGCGCCCAGCGCCGGCCTTCGGGTCCCACCTTGCGGGTGATGTTGTGCACGTAGGGGCACGTGTTGCAGGAGAAGCGGTGGCAGCGTTGTCCCTCCTCCACGATCAGCCCGTTCCCGCAGCCGGGGCAGAACAGCAGCATGGTCTCGAACTCCGCAGGCTCCAACTCCCGGCAGCTCCCACTGCCGCTCAGCGCCGATGCGCCGCCCGCCTCGAGCTCACATTGGTCCTGGCAGCCTTCCCGCCACACCAACCAACCAATAGACAGGGCGATTCTGCGCTCCCGGCCCTGCTGCAGGCTGTCTCGCACTTGTCATTGGTCACTGCAGCCGCCCCACCCCCCCCGGCGCGCCAGTGGCTGGGCGGCCTCGCTGGGGCGGGCCGCAGTTCCTGCGCGTGCGCGCTTGGCCTCCCTAGTGCGGGCTGGCAGTGCGGGCAGAGCCCGGCTGAGAGGGGCGGCCCTGGAGGAGACGGAGGCCGCGGGTGGGCCCGAGGCGCAAGAGGAAGATGAGGACGAAGAAGAGGCGCTGCCGCACTCCGAGGCCATGGACGTGTTCCAGGAGGGTCTGGCTATGGTGGTGCAGGACCCGCTGCTCTGCGATCTGCCGATCCAGGTGTGTGCGGGCGGGGGCTGGGGGCGCGGGAGTCGTTCCCCGGGGTCCGGGCATCCGGGCGCCGGCAGCCTCCGAAGGTGCTGGTGGGAGACTGCGGCCCAAGGCTGAGGAAGGCGCCTCTGGGCGTAAACGAGGGTTTTAACCTTGACCGGGCgcactcgcctggggcgcgaagcttaaagaggaaccaaaaacctcattagtgagtgacatcaaatgacattttaatgtaatTGTATTTAGGGGGCTCGGGGGACAGGGTCTTGCTGCGTTGCCCGGGCTGGAGTGCAGCGGCGtcctcccacctcagcctcccgagtaattgggaccacaggtgcgcgctaccacacccggctaatttttaaatattttgtacagagggagtctcactatgttgcccaggctgatctgaaactcctgggctcaggcgatcctcctgcctcggcctcccaaaatgctgggatttaggtgtgagccacccgcctggcctgtaatacctttaaaagtcaaagttgaggcaaaaaaagagcctacggtaaaagaaaaatttagttttaaataagagcaagattagtagtactgattgttccatttgcctcaagcgtcaatcatgtgtcaaagcgtcagtatcatgctttgggacgatactgtctttttatttatttatttatttatttgagactgagtcttggtccgttgccaggctggagtgtagtggtgccatctcgactcactgcaacctccccctcccgggttcactacaggcacgcgccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggcttcaccatgttgggccaggatggtcttgatctcctgacctcatgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccaattttaaatgttttatattttgctcatcatggatattttaattgccttgtatttcttaaatgttgtattaaaatatttattgttattaccgtgttttgctgccccggtaaattttgcacACCTGCCTTACTCAGTCCCGAAGCCTGGCCTGGGTCCTGATGATCAGGGATATACTCAGCGTGAACTGACAGGCCTCTACCCACCCCTGGGGGCAGGTCCTCATGTGAGTTTATTCTCTTGCCTGTTTCTTAGCACCTCTTTCCCCCAGAGACTCTGTCCACTATGGACATTAAAATGTGAGTGGAACATGAGATTGGGGCTCTGATGAATTGGGAAACCATAACGTACAGGCAACCACCCTTCCTTGCCCTTCGTAAAATGGAGCACCACTTTTTGGCCACTATCGGCTTGTTCTTTGTTGTTGCTCAAGGTGGTAAAGAGAGCCAGGGTTCCCACTTCTGCCCTTGGTCTTTTGTAGGTTACTCTGGAAGAAGTCAACTCCCAAATAGCCCTAGAATACGGCCAGGCAATGACGGTCCGAGTGTGCAAGATGGATGGAGAAGTAATGCGTAAGTGCTACCCTCCTCCCTTCAGGTTATGTGGTCCAGGCTTTCACAGCAGGAAGACCTAACAGTGCTGGTCAGCCTGCTCAGAAACTCACAGGCCATGCCCAGGGGTACTGGGGCAACCACAAACCTGCCCTGTGCACAGAGGTGTTGGTTCCTTTCCTGCCATCGGAGGCTGTGGCTTTGGGTTCTCACCATGGATCTTCTCCCATCTGTGTCCGTGGTTGCAGCCGTGGTTGTAGTGCAGAGTGCCACAGTCCTGGACCTGAAGAAGGCCATCCAGAGATACGTGCAGCTCAAGCAGGAGCGTGAAGGGGGCATTCAGCACATCAGCTGGTAAGTGGAACAACATTCCCTTCATTATAGCCCTTCGTGGGGCTAGTGCCCTTCTTGGCACTGTCACCAGGCACCACCTGGAAACAGCTCTCAGCTCTGCATGAGTACAGCACCACTGAAGTGATGAGCTCCCTGTCACAAGAGTGATGAGCTCCCTGTCACAGACAGTGCGGGTCGTTCTGTGCCTGGGACTCCTGCCTCGGCCATCCCCAACATTCTGCTCTTCCATCGGCATCACCCCATCCGAGCTGCTGGGTATCTTCACTTGGGGACACTGTCGGGAATTTCCAGTGTGTCTGGAAGTGGCCTCCCTAGTTTTGGATGGTACACCTGTAGGGGCTCCCATCCCCTTCTCACCTGGGTGCTGTCAGCCCTCACTCTCCTATTGGATCAACTATCCTGTTCACTGAGTCTCAACACTGTCGCCTGTTGCATTAGCAAGGTTTGTTTGGCCAAGCCGCCCCAGACAGCCCTCTGAGAACAGAGCCTCCTTGTAGCTGCCTCAGACCCAATCTGCACATTGTACAGAACAGCCCAGGTAGGGAGGACAGCTGCCCCAGGTCCCATAGGACTGCATGCCTCAAGCCCACGTCATGCAGAGCCACTCAGCTCACCCTGCTCAGGGCACGTGGTTTACCTGCATTCCCCTCTTGCAGGTCCTACGTGTGGAGGACGTACCATCTGACCTCTGCAGGAGAGAAACTCACGGAAGACAGAAAGAAGCTCCGAGAGTAAGTGCCGGCCACGTCCTGAGCCGTAGGGCACCGCTGTTCTGTTGCCCCTTAGTCCCCCATGCTCTGCCAGAGGGCTGCGGCTCCCTCTCCGGAGATAACACCCTCCTCCAAGGAGCTTCCTTGGGGCCCTCCCCACTAGGAGAATGGCAGGCAGAGGGCAGCTGGAGGGGCCTTGCTGCTTCCCACCAGTGGCAGCTTAGGGCTACACAGTGCCAGGAGGGAGGAAATCAGAGTGGGCATGGAGGCGAAAGGCTGTGACTCTATCTGACACTCAGTTCCCTGCCCCGGGGACTTGTGAGTCGGAGTGCTTCTGGGTCTGTGAGAGGATGGCCACTGCACTTCCTGGCCTTCCCAGAAGCCACACGCCTCCCCTCTGTTGTTTCTTCGTGGTCCTCCACAGCCTCAGGAGGGGAGTCACAGATATGTCCTTCTGTAGGGCAGGTGCTTTATGCCTTTCCTTCTTTTTCAGCTACGGCATCCGGAATCGAGACGAGGTTTCCTTCATCAAAAAGCTGAGGCAAAAGTGAGCCTCCAGACAGGACAACCCTCTTCATCACTGGTGGCTGAGCTTTTTCCCAGCAGGAATGGGTCCTCGAATCATCGTGCCTCTTTCACAGAAAGGACGTTGTGGTGGCCTCACCCCAGGCATGCCCAACAGTAACTGTCAGCATAAACCTGGGGGCCCTCAGGACTAGGACAGGGTGAGCCAGTGCTCCCTCCTTTCATGTACTTGGCCTGAGACTGACCTCTCCCTAGGTCCAAATGCCCTAGTCACATGGCAGACCCACGGCCTGGCCCACTGTATAAAATAAACCTGTTTGCTTCTTAGTTTGAAAAGTAGAAAGCCACAGTAACCTGGGTAGCAAAGACTGAGATTGCCCCATCACAGAGGTGAGTTAAGGGGAGAGAATTGGTACAGGCGAGTCCTATAGTCCAAGATGGCGCCACACCACCAAAGCCTTGAGGCCACACCACTCCCCAAACCACACAACTGTGTTACCATGATCTCCACAGCAAGGAGGAAATAAAAGCAGAGCGGCTTTAGGGTTTGCATCCTGGAGCTCACAGTGGCAGCAAGCATAGCACAGCTGTGTGTGGGCCCTCCAGCCTCAGCCTTTAGGGTTCCCTGCAGCAGGTTCGGTGGACAGGGAGGGAGTGTGGGGTGGAAATTGGAGCTGCTAAGGGTGGGGGCGGGGTGCTTCCCAGCATGTGGGGAGGGTATGACAGTACATCCCTAGGTCCCTGTCCCAGCGTCGGCTACCAGCCACTCTAAGAAAGAGCAAGGTGCACGTGCCTGGCTGAAGGATTTCACTGGGAAGTGAAAGAGCCCGTGACTGTATCTGACACTCAGTTCCTGCCCGGGTGAGTCAGCCACAAGGGGCCTGCAGGACCTCCCTCCACAGCTTCCAGCCAGAAACAAAGAAGGATAGGGAAGCCCTGGTCAAGTTAATGGCAGCTAAAACGCTCCCAGTCCATTTATTGGCCACATGAGGTGGTCGTCAAGAAACAAGTTAGAAGGTTATGACAGGAAGTAGTATAATAAATGCCCGGCAGTACGAGGGGTTCAACAGAAGTGAACAAGGCACAAGAAAGAGGTCTGTGTTCAGGAAACAGGCCAGTCCCCACATGGAGCAGGTGACTCCTGTAAGCCTGTGAGGCTCAGGGAGGTCGTGTCTGGCTCTGGCCTGCTGGAGCACACGGCCGCTGGAGCCCGCAGCCAGCTCAGTGGAGCTGAGCGTCCAGTTCGTACTTCTCACAGAACTTGTCAGTGAAGGGGATGCAGGTGAGGAACTCACACCACTCACAGCGGACAGGATAGACGTAGAAGAGGACCACCAGGCCAGCCAGGAGGCCCAGGAAGACCACCTGAAAGATGATGATCTGGCAGCGTTTCCGGTACAGGTCGAACTTGCCAAAGCTGATGTAGGGCAAGAAGGCGAAGGAGAGGAAGAGGCCACTGATGAACCCTGAGATGTGGGCAAAGTTGTCAATCCACGGCAGCAGCCCAAAGGTGAAGAGGAAGAGCACCACAGCCAGCAGCTTGAAGAAGGCACGCCAGGGCCGCGCCAGGATCTGCCAGCTCTGGAAGAGCTCCACGAAGAGGCAGGCCAGGATGCCGAACTGGGAGCCAGCAGGACCCACCTGGGGGATGGTTGGGGTAGCTGTAAGGCAGTGGGGCTGGCAGGCCCCCTGGACCCAAGGCCTCATCTTTCTGCCCCACTTCCCATGGCCCAGAGCATATTGGGACCGAGGATCCAACTGGAGATGCTCCCAGACTCAGTGCTCGATATGGACAGGTTCACAGCAGGCTGCAGGTGCACACGGGAGGATCCCCACCCTGAGGGCCAGCCTTACCTCTGCTCGGTATGGCAGGAAGATGGCACTGGCCAGGTTGCCGGTGACACCACTCAGCAGGTAGATGATGGCTATGCGGTGCCAGCCTGCCAGCTTCTCCAGGTCCCGCAGGACAGTCATCTGGAAGCAGATGGACACCAGGCAGTGCAAGATCCTGTAGTCAGTAGCAGGCGGGGGTCGGGAGACATTCAGCAGGGAAGTGACCTTTCTGCCACCCCCAGCCAGCCAATCCTGAGGGCCCTGAGACCCCCGACCCGGCCCACAGTGTCACTTGCCCGGCGTGCAGGAAGAGGGATAGCCACAGGCGGTAGAACTGGTCAGGCACCTCGGGGTTGAGAAAAGGCAGGAGCCCACACACATCATCCATGCAGTGCACCTGCGCAGAGCAGCATATCAGCATCACAGTAGCTGGGGGAGGGGAACGACGGACACTCTGCAGACCTACCTGAGAGCAGAGCGTGGCCTCCTCATGGAAGTAGCCCCTCATGAAGTCACAGTACTCCCGGGAGGTGATCTCACACCTAGAAAGGCAGGCCAGGGTTCGGAGACTGCTGCCTTGCAGAGGGGGATTGCTGGCATCCAGGGCGAGTTTCAGCCGCACCTACCCACCTTTGTTGGCCCCAAGGAAGTCCAGACCCCCTCTAACCCCACATCCTTGGTATACTGGCTTATTTCAGGATTTGGTTAGGGAGAAGGCACACCCTAGGGCGATGCTCTGAGCCCAGAGACCAGCTGCACTCGCTGGCACGCACACGTACCTGCCCTTGGTGCCAATGCAGCAGGGCCGTCCTGTGATGACACAGTCCATGTGGGGATGGTTGGTGTGGTTCCCAGCGCTGTTTTTGGTGCAGATCTGGGTCACAAATGAGGACGAGCTGAGTCAGGGCCTCCCCCAACCTTTGGCCCCACACCACGTTTGGGGGTAGAGGCAAAGATGGGTGGGCTCATAAAGCAGAAAACGGTGTGGCTTCCTTGACTTCAAGCAGGCCACCACACTGAGTCTCTATCAAACTGGAATAATGTCACTTGACCTTTCAAGTCTCCATCTAGTTCTCTTGATCTACTTGCTCAGAGGGGCAGGCGCTGGTTGATGGACAGGCTGTACAAAGGGCAGGTGCACAGCCTCTGAAAACGTGAGGTGGTCCCATGATGGGAATCTCTGGTATCACCAGTGGGTGGGGTGTGGCATTCTCTCCCACATGACACGGAGGGCTCCCTAACAACCCCCCCACTGCAGCTCACCGGCCACTTGGTGATGTCTTCTGGCCACTCATGAGGGTCTTCGGAGGAGGGCTCATCACACACCCTGCATGAGCCAAGTATGTGGTCAGACCGGCTTCGAGCCCCTAGCATTGGCACCCTTCCAGCCAAGTCGCCAACAAGAGGAGCCCCTACACCCTCTGCACCACAGCCCCCGGGGAAGGTGTGGACAAAGGCAGGTGAGAGAGCTGCCGGCAGGACTAACCTGGGATCCTGGTGGCAGACAGAGCCAAACTGTCTCTTGTGGCCCGCAAGCTCTGGGGCGCTGGGATGGATGGGCCACTTCACCCACACTGCCAGCGTGGACTGTGGGAGGGGGACACAGGGTCAGGTCCAGTTGGGTCAGGGCAATGAGGGGCACGCAGGGAGTCAGGAGTCGAAGGCAAAACCACTGAGCTCTTCCCTCCGCTTCTACAAGTCACCCCCACTCTTGAGATGCACGTGCatgttggaaaagactcttacaaggagtttgacggcataattcctgttagctgaaaatcagaaacaacctctgtgtcctaaatcagggaactggtatggactacggcacttccacataagatgatgtgatgaaagttgggatgaatttttttaaaaattgcttagtggaaaagaggcaaataccacttatgtaaGCTTTAAGACACATGCTGGAAGAGTACACCCAAATCAAAAGACCAAATCAGATGATGGTCTACGGGGCGAGGAGCTGGAGATGGGGGAGGGTGGGGATGAGGAGGAATGAATATGACAAGGCCTTGCGCGTAAGGACGGCGGGATGTGCCAGGAACGAGGGCGAAGGATCACTCTGCCGAGTCTATCTGAGGTCTGAAGAGCGAACACCGGGCAGACGAAGGCGGGAGTCCCGGGCGGGGAAACGCACCGAGCACTCCTCCTCCGAGGTCTGCACGCAGCCCGACCTGTCGTTGCGCACGCAGCAGGCGGAGTGCTTCTCGCGCTCGCGCGCCGAGCGAATGAAGCTGTGCACCTGCGGGTCCTGGCGCATGCAGGGCGAAAACTTGGCGCCCAGGTGGATGAGGGCCTCCTGCGGGCGAGGGAGACGAGCGGCCGCAGTCCGGGGCctcctgcccccgccgggcacctccaggtcccgcccccgccggccccgcccccagccccgtcctcaccGAGCTGGGCCCGATCCAGAAGTTCTCCTGCTGCACGTACTTGACGTTCTCGTAGACCCCGCGGTTCCGCAGCACCTGGGAGGTTGGGGAGCGGGATCAGACGGGCCCCGACTCTGGCCCTCTCCTCCCAGAGCGGGTCGGGAGGGGGTCCAGTGCCCGGACTCCACTCGTCTGGGCCCAGGGAAGGCACAGGGGCTCACCGAGTCCACCGTCTCATGCTGCGAGAAGCCCACGGGCGCGATGCCATAGATGCACACGGCTAGGATGGTGACGAGCGAGTGCACGAAGGTAAGCCAGTAGGTGAAGAAGGGCCTGCGGGGTGGAGCGTCAGCGGGGGCCTCATCCCCGACCCGGAGCCCCCACCCTCCCCCGGGAGCCTCCATCCCAACCCAGGCCTTGCCTGCCACGCCTACCTGTGGTCGTCCATGTCCTCGATCTGGCGCTTGACGAAGCTGTCGATGCGCTTGCGGTAGGTGCGGTTGGTGAGCCGTCCCACCATGCCCAGCCCATACGGCCGCTTCTCCCGGGCGAAGAGCTTGCGCACCGGCACCGCGATACGCTGGCCCCGTCGCGGCCCCGCGGTGCTCACCACCTCCTGTCGGAGCCGCACCTTGGGCTGCGGGGCTGCGGCGCCCTCCTTCTGCTTCCGCCAGCCTCGCTCCAAGGGCCTGGAGGGAGCCGGCATTCACCTCCCGCCCCAGCCCCGCAAACTGCTGCAGTCCCTCCCCGGGGGGCACCAGGGCACCCTGTCTCTATCCTGGCGAATATACTGCGCAAGTCGCCCGGCATCTGCCTTCTCCTTGCCAGTAAAAAAGCAACACTGCGGGCCTCCGGGGATGGCAGGGAGCTGGAACGGGGACACACTGACTTCTGCAACTCAGCAAGTATCACCTCTGTCACCTCCGCCTCCCCGTTGGATTCTGCCCAGCCCCTGGGTTCTAAGATTGCTGTCCCATTCCACAGGCAAGCCATGAGACTGGGGCCATGCCCAGCTCTGCGTCTCCCACCCCTGGTGGCCCAGTGAGTAGTGAGTTCCCAGTCCCTGAGGCTACCCCTTCCATCGCCCACAGAGGTGAATGCCGATACTCGCCCAGCTGTTCCTGACGGGCCCCGGGGTCTCTCTCTGCCCCTCTTCCCTGCCTGCCGCACTCACAGCATCAGGTGGCTGCGCTCAAGCTCGCTGCGGTCCAGGGCCCCGCCGGTGAGGTCCGCCTGCTCCGGTGCCTTCTCCCAGTCCTTTAGCGCTGCCTCCGATGGGGACTCGAAAACTTCATCCGGGTATGTGGACAGCTCTTCATGGAGGATACCTTCCTGAGCAAACACATGAGGTCAGGGTGGACACAGGCAGGAAGGGAACGTGGGGTGGGGGGACACCCCGGGCACTTCTTACCCGGGCAAAGAAGGATGTGTCCAGCTCATCGGGGAAATCAGTTGTGTCCTCCTCCAGAAAGCTAGCTGGAGTGAAGCTTCGACGCTGTGCCCGGCGAAAGGTGCCATCCCTAACGGAGCGGCCCTGGGGACGGGGAAGTGAGCATGAGACCCGGCTGCTGGGTCGGCCCCCAACCCCGCCTTTGGCCCCTGCACCCACTTTCATCAGCGCTGCGGCCGCCCGGAAGCTCATCTTGGCCACCGACTCTCGCTTGCGCCGCCGCGGGAGCCGGTGGAAACCTGAGCGGGAGCTGGAGAAGGAGCAGAGGGAGGCAGCACCCGGCGTGACGGGAGTGTGTGGGGCACTCAGGCCTTCCGCAGTGTCATCTGCCACACGGAAGGCACGGCCACGGGCCAGGGGGTCTATGATCTGGAGGAGGGGAGGAGATGCTGGAGTCAGGACCATGGGGGCTCCTAGCTCACCCAGAGGCACAGAGGCCTTGCAAAGACAGCGTGACTGCTGCTCCTGACTCCTCACGGGCCCCTGGACAGCTCTATGGCCACCACTCCCACCCCACAGCACCTAGAGGTCCTGCCTGGAATGCTCTCCCATCCAGACACTGGCCCCCTGGTGCAATCCCAAGACCATGTCCCCATCCCAAGGTACCCCTTCCCAGAGACTGTTTCAGGTGCCTTCACGAGCAGGCTGTCTGACTGCCCTTCCAGACTGTGAGCTCCCAGAGAGTCCCTTCTGCTCAGGCTGGCTGTGTCCGCAGCCCCAGCCCCTGAGAGCGGAAGGAGGGGCCTGCAGGAGGCAGCAACAGGCAGGCATACCTTCTGCATGCCCAGCTGGCATGGCCCCACGTAGAGTGGGGGTGGCGTCTCGGTGCTGGTCAGCGACACGTTGTCCTGGCTGGGCAGGTCCAGCTCCCGGAGGACCTGGGGCTTCAGCTTCCCGTAGCGCTGGCTGCAGTGACGGATGCTCTTGCGCTGCCATTTCTGGGTGCTGTCACTGTCCTTGCTCACTCCAAACCAGTCGGCGGTCCCCCTGGCATGGCAGGGACTCAGCAAGGGGCGGCCAGATCGCCCCTCCCAGGCAGGGGACTTCAAAGGCCCTCCTCCGGGGCAGCATGCTGCCCCCAGGCCTGTAGTCACTCCAGGGACCAGGGTCTGAGTGGGCAAGGTCTAATAAGAGGATGAGTGGGTTCCAGCCACCCCCTGAACTGTTAGCCAACTCCAAGTTTCCACTAGACCGCAGCTGGCCTTGCCCGGTTGAGTGCTTCATAGAGGCCCTCACCCCACCATCCCTGAGGGGCAGTTGAGGGGAGGCACTGAGTCCAGAGAAGGAGCTGAGAGCTCAACCCGAGAGAGCTTGGCCCCAGGACACCACAGAGCTCAGACAGCAGGTGCTTACGGGCCCAGGCAGGCTGTCCACAGCACTTGGACATGCAAACAAAAACACTGCCAGCACCTGCCGTTAGGAGCCCCAGGGAATGCCAACCACACTGGCAGCTCCCAAGAGGTCACATGCCAAGCACATGCCAGAAAACACCAACACACTCATGACCTGTATGAGATACCTGAGCAGGGACCAAGAGAGAGACTGGCGCTGTGGGAAGGCCCTGCGGGCAGCCCGGGGACCCAAGAGGGGCAGAGTGTGGACACGCCCGAAGCGTACTTGTCGGCTGCTAAGAGGCAAGAGCATCCGGGCGGTGGAGACAGAGAAGGAGAGAGTGAGTGCTGAAGAGAAGGGAGTGGAGCAGGGTAGTGGGGTGAGAGCGGTCAGTATCCAGAACAGGAGGAGGGCAAGGGGATGGTGGGGACCGAGATGGAGGAGGAAGCTGAAACAAGAGGGCCCTTGTTCTCATTTCCATCCTCTGTGTACCTGCCTCTGCCCCACCAGCCCCCAGCTCCCACCCCATGGAGCAGCTGGGCGGTGTTGGTACCTGCGGATGGTCTGTGTGATGGACGTCTGGCGTTGCAGCACCGGCCGCCGGAGCTCATGGTGGGGTGAAGAGATGTGGGCTGTCTCGGCTGGCATACTCACACTCCTCAGGAAAGCCTGTCGCCTCAGGGGCTGGGCAACAGGGTCATGGTGAGGGTACTGGACAGGGGGCACCCACAGTCCCTGCAGGCCAGGGCCTACCTGCAGGAAGCTGGGCTCTTCTGCCGTCAGGGGCACCGCAGAGGGAATGTCCAGCTTTAGCCAGGGTGGCTTCTTGCGCTGCAGGCTGCTCGTGCTGTCCCTGCGGGCCTCACTCATGGTTCCTGGCAGAGCAAGGCAGGCCTGCGGGGCATGGTGTGTTATTCAATAATGACAAAGCTGACATCTGAAGATTCATTGCACCCAGACCCGGGAGGAGGGAGAAGCAGTGATGAGCCCAACCGTGGTGCTCATGTCCCCCACTGTCAGAGCACTACTGTGTGCTCAGCACCGACTTTCTCTGTGCCTGCCTTGTTCATCCCAGCAGACAGTGCTGGGCACAGCCTAGGTCCTCAGACAACATAAGtccatgggacaactatctgagcacacactatggtcaggatactgctctaggtgcttgaggcacattggtggagaaacgagacaaaatccctgccctcctggagcttacagtctagacaatatttttaaatgagtgaatgtactggttaaaagatgctaagtatgatgggagcgggggaagcaaactagggttgcttgacaggaggcagtgaggcctccccatgaagtaacagctgagcaaaggcttgaaggaggggagtgagcacagctggggttgcaggggtttccacacacaggggacagccgatctgaggtctcagtgacaggagGCTCACCCTAGTCTGTGCCCAGGGCAAATCTCACACCTGTCTTACCAGGCCTCACCCTCTTACCCACCCAGACTTCCACTCCAGGGACAAAGGGCCCACTATGCACATGACAGCCTGCAAGAGGTGTGTGATCGGTCCAGTGCATAGAGTCACCACATTCAGGAAAGAGGGTGACACAGCAGCAGCTAGTGGCCCCAGGCTCCTGGGCACAAATGACTTTCCAGAAACCACCCGGGCGCAGACACCGTAGTGACCACCAGGTGACGCCACGCGCCCAGAAACAGCAGTGAGGCGGCTCGGTGCCGGGGCTGCGGGGCATTGCAAGCTTGGCTCTACCATGACATGCCAGGCACGGGGCCAGGGCCCCACGGAAGGCCCCAGAGCAGATAGGCCAGGGTTCGATTCTGGCCACCACTGCCTGGCCATATGACTACGACTCCATTTCCCCCTTACACCTTCCTGGCAGACCTGCAGCTGTCCCCAACCCAGGGGGACCACACGGCGATTCCAGTGGAGACCCAGATTGAGAAGGGCCCCTGAGCATGACACGAGACAGATAGTGGGGGGCTGGCCAGAGCTGAAGCAATTTTGGACAGAAAACCCCAAATTCCTCAGCCTCTTTAAAGAGCTGCAGCCTCTGACAGGCTCGGAGCCGCTGGGTCGGCAACCCACCCACCAAGGCCCCAGAAATGGCTTTCACTCACAGGTCTCCCTCCCAACTGCTTGGAGGAAAGccccacctatgctgtacaaatagggaaactgaggccaggaaacacaggcttgcctcgctcacggtcatatatggagggcagcacaattagagacagcccagggtgctgctcacagctcctaatggtcttatgccagccaGGGACAGGCCTGGGACAGAGCTCACGGCTCCTTCCGACCCTGTACTACCAGGGAAAGGCTGGGAATGCTGCTCACAGCCCCTACTGGTCCTACAGGGACCAGAACAGACACAGGTGGGAGGGGGTACTTCAGGGATGCCTTCTGCTGGCTCTTACCCCACCCCTCACGCTCCAGCCCCTTATCTGAGCTGACTGTGCACTTCAGGTCCCAGGTGAGAGCTGGGGGGCAAAGCTTTGGGGCACTCCCCAGGCATGGTGCCCAGGGATCATTCCATCCACATGGCCCCCTAAGGCTGAGTTCCTGTCCCTGGCCCATACTTGGCCTGGAATCAGGGGCACGAGCCAAGGGCAGCAACTCCACATCACTGGGAAATCCCTCCAGGGCCCCTCACCCATGCAGAGCCCCAGAGTGCAACAGGGTCGGACAGAAAGGCATCCTAACTGAGAACTGGGTGGGTCAAGGTCCCTCTGGGAACTGCACCAGGAGACCCCTCTGCATCTGACTCGTGACCCAAACCCAGCCCAGACCTGCGTGTCCTGGATACGGCCCAGCCACAGCGTGAAGGGGTCACAGCTAGACTTCCTCATCGTCCCCCAGCCCTCCCTCCACAGGGTATATGGACTGCAGTACCATCACCCTGCTGGTAAGGAATAGCCAGGAGGGGCCACCTCTGAGTCTCAGACACTAAGGGTGGAATTTCAGACAGCATCAGACACGTTGGGAAGGCAGGTGGTGCTCGGCAAGGGGCTTCCGGAACCCACAGTGCTGGGACAGCATTCTGAGTACACTCCCAGCATGTTCTCACCCAGAAAATGGACGAATGCTCTTAGTGAGGCCATTATGGGGGCCAGAGAGGAGCAGGGCCCAGCGTAGAGACTGGGGCCACTGCCAGGAATCAGCAGGCTGAATCCAGGGGGCCAGCCTCTCCAGGAGTCTCCACCTGTGCCCAGCAGCACTAGGCGACATCCAGCTGGTTCTTCACTCAGGAGTGTGAGTGACCTTTGCCAACAGAGACCGTTGCCAGCTGATGGGCTCACACACATCCATGACTTCCCTGGCTCCTGCTCTCCGCTGCTCCTCACACCTGACTCCCTCCCATCTCAGAGCCCTGCAAATGCGCTCTGCCCACCCTCCCCTGTGTGGGAGGACCTGCAGCCTCAGGCTGCCCTACTACCCAAAGGCGGTCCTTGGCCTGGATCCCTGGGCACAGCACAAGGCAGGAGTTCATTCACATATGTATGGGCCACTGTCCTGTCACTGCTGCCTCCACAGTGCTCAGGACTGGCCTGCTCTGAAGCCACCGCTGGGTAGGCACTGATCACTGAACAACGCAGGCCATCGGGGTCCCTAATCTGGGGTAACGGAGGATTCCTCAAGATGACCTCTCAGCTGGGTCTGGGAAGACGAGCTGCCTGGCATGAGCGGATGCAAGCAGGAACAGTCAGGGGGTGAGAAGAGCCGAGAGCTGTGAGCGTGTACGGGGAACCTGACCTCCCCAGGACTGTTTCGGCCGGGGACCACAGCCGGCCCCAGGAACCTCCCCAGGACTGTCTCAGCCGGGGACCACAGTCGGCCCCAGGAACCTCCCCAGGACTGTCTCAGCCGGGGACCACAGTCGGCCCCAGGAGACAGCAGAGTGCTCAGCTCATGAAGGAGGCACCAGCCGCCATGCCTCTACATCCAGGTCTCCTGGGGTTCCCACCTCCACAAAAACCCCCACTGCTAGGAGTGCAGGCAGGAGGGGACCTGAGAACCGACAGTTATAGGTCCTGCGGGTGGGCAGTGCTGGGTGTTCTGGTCTGCCCCACCCCTGTGTGCCTAGATCCCCATCTGGGCCTCAAGTGGGTGGGATTCCAAAGGAAGAGCCGGAGTAGGCGTGGGGAGGGGCAGGCCCAGGCTGGACAAAGAGTCTGGCCAGGGAGCGGCACATTGCCCTCCCAGAGACAGTGGCTCAGTGTCCAGGCCTTCCCCAGGCGCACAGTGGGCTCTTGTTCCCAGAAAGCCCCTCGGGGGGATCCAAACAGTGTCTCCCCCACCCCGCTGACCCCTCAGTGTATGGGGAAACCGTGGCCCACGGAAGGCCTCACTGCCTGGGGTCACACAGCATCTGAGTCACTGCAGCAGCCTCACAGCTGCCAGCCCAGGCCCAGCCCCATCAGGAGACACCCAAAGCCACAGTGCATCCCAGGACCAGCTGGGGGGGCTGCGGGCAGGACTCTCGATGAGGCTGAGGGACGAGGAGGGTCAAGGGAGCCACTGGCGCCATGCATGCTGACGTCCCCTCTGGCTGCCTGCAGAGCCTGGTGTGGAAGGGCTGAGTGGGGGATGGTGGAGAGTCCTGTTAACTCAGGTTTCTGCTCTGGGGATGTCTGGGCACCCATCAAGCTGGCCGCGTGCACAGGTGCAGGGAGAGCCAGAAAGCAGGAGCCGATGCAGGGAGGCCACTGGGGACAGCCCAGGCTGATGCTTGGGCCCCATGTGTCTCCACCACCTACAACCCTAAGCAAgcctcagctttcccatctggaaatcaggggtcacagcagtgcctGGCACAGTAGCAGCGGCTGACTCCATCACAGGGTGGTGTAGCCTGTGGGTACTTGGCACTCTCTGAGGGGCAGGAGCTGGGGGGTGAAAGGACCCTAGAGCATATGCAACAAGAGGGCAGCCCTGGGGACACCTGGGGACAGAACCCTCCAAAGGTGTCGAGTTTGGGAAGAGACTAGAGAGAAGCTCTGGCCAGTCCAGGCATAGACAGTGGCCACAGCCAGTGGAGAGCTGCATCCTCAGGTGTGAGCAGCAACCACCTCTGTACTCAGGCCTGCCCTGCACACTCACAGGACCATGCTGGCAGGGACAACTGGCGGCGGAGTTGACTGCCAACCCCGGGGCCAGAACCATCAAGCCTGGGCTCTGCTCCGCCCAAGGAACTGCCTGCTGCCGAGGTCAGCTGGAGCAAGGGGCCTCACCCCGGGACACCTTCCCAGACGTGTCCTCAGCTCACATGAGCCTCATCCCAGGGGGATGTGGCTCCTCCAGCATCCCCACCCACACGCTGCTCTCTGACCCTCAGTCTTCTGTTTGACTCCTAATCTGAAGCTCAATCCTAGATCTCCCTTGAGAAGGGGGTCACCAGCTGTCTGGCAGCCCAGCCTCCAGGTCTTCTGGATTAATGAAGGGAAAGTCACCTGGCCTCTCTGCCTTGTCTATTAATGGCATCATGCTGAGAATGATATTTGCTAGGCCCTTTGCAAACCCCAAAGTGCTCTTCAACCCTCCCAGTGAAGCCTCTTCTTTTCTGTGGAAGAAATGAGGTTCAGGGTGGAGCAGGGCAGGCCTGAGACCTTTGCAGGGTTCTCTCCAGGTCCCCAGCAGGACAGACTGGCACCCTGCCTCCCCTCATCACCCTAGACAAGGAGACAGAACAAGAGGTTCCCTGCTACAGGCCATCTGTGAGGGAAGCCGCCCTAGGGCCTGTAGACACAGGAATCCCTGAGGACCTGACCTGTGAGGGTAGTGCACAAAGGGGCCAGCACTTGGCAGGAGGGGGGGGGGCACTGCCCCAAGGCTCAGCTAGCAAATGTGGCACAGGGGTCACCAGAGCTAAACCCCTGACTCAGTTGGGTCTGACAGGGGCTGACATGGCAGACACACCCAGGAATCAGGGGACACCAAGTGCAGCTCAGGGCACCTGTCCAGGCCACACAGTCAGAAAGGGGATGGCAGCAAGGACTTAGCTACACTAGATTCTGGGGGTAAACTGCCTGGTATGCTGGTCACTGCTAGTCCCCAGTCTGGAGTCTAGCTGGGTCTCAGGAGTTAGGCGAAAACACCCTCCCCAGGCTGCAGGTGGGAGAGGCCCACATCCCCTGCACACGTCTGGCCAGAGGACAGATGGGCAGCCCAGTCACCAGTCAGAGCCCTCCAGAGGTGTCCCTGACTGACCCTACACACATGCACCCAGGTGCCCAGGCACCCTTGGGCTCAGCAACCCTGCAACCCCCTCCCAGGACCCACCAGAAGCAGGATAGGACTAGAGAGGCCACAGGAGGGAAACCAAGTCAGAGCAGAAATGGCTTCGGTCCTCAGCAGCCTGGCTCAGCTTCCTCAAACCAGATCCTGACTGATCACACTGGTCTGTCTAACccctgggaggggtcctctgtatccatcttacagataaggaaactgaggctcagagaagcccatcactgcctaaggtcccagggcctataagggagctcaaagccttgggccaggtctgccCAGGAGCTGCAGTGGAAGGGACCCTGTCTGCAGACCCCCAGAAGACAAGGCAGACCACCTGGGTTCTTCAGCCTTGTGGCTGTGGACGGCTGTCAGACCCTTCTAAGACCCCTTGCCACCTGCTCCATCAGGGGCATCTCAGTTGAAGAAGGAAGGACTCACCCCCAAAATCGTCCAACTCAGAAAAAAAGGCAGAAGCCAAGGAATCCAATCACTGGGCAAAATGTGATCCTGGCACAGACACTGAGGTGGGGGAACTGGAGCCGGTGTGGCGGAGGCCCTCACAGCCAAGAGCAACTGGGGGTGCCCTGGGCAGGGACTGTAGCTGGGAAGATCCTAGGGGAGGGCCTGATGGTCCCTGAAAGGCAGGGGAGACCTGGACGACTCCCCCTAAACCAAGAGCGCACCCTAGAAAGTCAGCTCCCCAAGGTGGGGACCGGCCAGCTCATGAGGGGTGCTGGTTGAGGGGCCTGCTTGTGCAACGGAGGCCACCCAGCCAGTGAAAGCTACTTGGAAGGGCTGGGAAAGGGTCTGAGGCCCCTTCAATCTGGCACCACCAGACTCCCATGCACTCCATTTGCCCCTGCCCCATTCTCAGGAAAAGGGGCCCGGCTTGCCCAGAATGACCCCTGGTGGCAGGGGGCTCCGCCTCAGGGACCCCTTGAGCCCCAGCCAGCTGCTTGGTCCCCAGCTTCTGCCCACCCTTGGGGTCGGGGCTAGGAGGTTGGGGTTAGCTCCACAGGGGTGAGGAGAACCGAGCCTGGGACTGCCCAGGCATCTAGCTGGGTCAAACCTGAAAAGCCAGTTTCATCCTTGAATCTTCTCCCGGTCTCCAACAGGAAGTCCCGTTGGCGGGTGGGAGTTCCCAGGATAGGAGAAGGGCCTCCAGACCTAGGCCCCACCCACCGGGACAGACACACACATTCACCATCTCAAGCGGCACACACAGAAGAAACTCTGGTCAGGACCACCTCGGTCGGAAGCAGGCCCTGGGGGGCCAGGGAAGATCCCCTGCCCATTCCCCGCCCAGCCCCACAAACATGCCCCCAGCATGACAGACAACCAGGCCCTCTGCCAATGCCCTGAGCATCTGGGGTCTGGCTGTCACCCCAGCCGGGAGAAGGCCTGTCCCCGTTGGCCTCTGCGCACAGAGTGAGAGTCTGTCTTCGGGAGTCGCTCCCAGCCCACCCTGGAGCTTCGAAGTGTACAGATGGGGGAGTCAGTGTCGTGGGGCAGAAGGCGGAGTCAGTCCCCCACCCCCAGCTCCACGGCTCCTGCTATTCCCATCGGTGAGGGCAGCCGGGACAGGGACCATCCCGCCCTGGGCTGGAGTTTCAGCTCGGAGACACCACCCGCCGGTCGTGGCCGGGAAGGAAAATGCAGCGGGGGGAGTTCAGAGGAACCTGGGGCACCCCCGGACTCTAGACTCCCGCTCCTGGGACCCTCAGCTGTTGGGCGGGGGCTGGAGCCGAGCTGTCCCGCCCGGCCAGGCCGCTGGGGCTGCTAATCCGGCCACGGGCTATTTTTGCGGCGCGCCGGGCTAGGAATCCGGGGCTGGGCCGCCTCCGCGGGCGACTCGGGAAACTCCAGGAAGAAAAgcccggccgccccgggggggcctcgccgcgacccctccccggccccggccccggccccgacacggccccggccgcTCTGAGCAGCTCCGGCCCCGGGTGCTGAGGACTCGCCCCGCCCTCCGGACGCAGCCCCGGAACCCGCCCGCCCCCGGAGCCCTGCGCTCCCGGCCGCGCTCACTCACTGCCGCCGCCGGGGGCTCTGGGGGGTCCTGAGGGCGCCGGGGAGGAGGCTgccgccgctggccgggagggcccgcgccgagtccccgcccgcccgccggtccggcccgcccgggaatgccctggagcgaggggcgtgcgcccgggggcgggcccggccggagcggggcggTCGCGCTGACTCAGAGCTCAGGAATGCGCGCCGCCCGCCTGCCCGGCCCAAGTCACCTCCTCCCGGAAGGCCGCCGGGCTCCCTTCTCCCCAGGGTCCGCCTGCGGGGACACCTGGGGCTGGGGTCTCCAGCGCCTCGGCCCGACGGAGGACCTGGTGGGAGCGGACCGCAGTGTCAGCGCTGGGCGGCTCCGCCTCTCCCTGGCTCCAGATTGAGGCTTGAGCTGTCCTGCCCTGATTTGTGCTGAGAAGAGGGTGAGGAGGGAGAGCAGGCACGGGGTAAAGGGCGGAGGATGGGTGTGTATCCCTGGCTCCCCTAAACCCGACCTCCTCCAGAGGCCCACGCTGACAAGTCCTGTATCCCACACTCACCCAATCCCACTAAGCACTCACATTCCCTcacacacattcatgtgcaccgatcactcacaatcatacacacacgtccccacatccttccacttcatgcgttcattcgcctgcacatgcacgtgctcacatgcacccacctactcatgtacatctttcatgggtacatacacgtgcacacacacacgtgtacacaccgatgcacacactcaGTTCAGGACCACAGTCATTACCCCTCCCCCTGCCCTGTGCCCCTACCCCCAGAAGCCCCGCTCCACCAGCAGGCACTCAGGCCAGGCTGCACCGGCCCCACCCGAAGCCACTCAGCAGAGGCAGCGCAGTGTCTGGTGTCCACTCTGGGCTCTTCTCACTGTCTCAGAGCTCAGCGGCCACCCCGGGGTGGGCTCATATCCCTGCACAATCTGGGCTGGACTCAAAATGGCACTCTGCTTTCCGCTGGGGCTGCTGGTGAGAGTTTCCCAGCATTTCTCTCCTGACACTGGGTGGGCTGACCCTCCCAGGGTGGGGGACAGGGGTGCCAACAGCAGAGTACGGGCAGGGCTGTCCAGGAGCTCTGAGTGGTGGGTGGCCAAGGCTTCCTCTGGATAGAGGGTGCAGGGATCCCTTCGTCCCATGGGTCCCTAAGGACCCCTCTACAGGGTGCCCCCCCATGCCTCGGACAAATGTGTCTTCAGGCCCTGTGCTGGTCACAAGGTGCTGCTGCTTCAGTGCCATCCTCTGGGTCTGGGTGGCACCAGCCCTCTCCAAACTGAGCTGTTGCACTTGAGGGCCCGACGCAGACAATGGCCTGCTCCTTGGCTAGACAGAAAAGGGGAGAATTTGAACTAAAGGTGCTGGTACACTTACCGGTAGATCCCAGAGCCTGGGCAAGATTCCCCTGCCCATATCCTTGTCCATGCCACGGGATAGGGCGGTGCCTGCACATAATGGGTGCTCTCTGAACACAAGCAATATCAACACAATTCTCATGTAGAAGGAGACAATGGAAGCTTTGGAGGGGGTGGAGGGTAACTCCACCAGGGGATGACTGCCAGTGCATCACGGACACCGGGTGAGAGGGAGCCTGCCCCAGTGCCAACACTCAGTGCTCCGATAGCCTGCACGTGCCACCCCTCCCATGCCAGGCTCACAGCCAGAGACAGGACAGTCTCCATGCTTAGCATTATTGACCTGCCAGGGATAAGCAAGCCCTATCGGGCCTGGATGCCCAGACTAGGCTGGCAGGGCCAGAAGTGGTGTCCTCTCTGGAAAGCTGGGGACTGGGCTTGCCTCCAAAGCATGCCACAGCTGGGCATCTGGTGTCAGCAGGTCTTCCTCCTGCAGTGGACTCTGTCAGACCCCACCTAGACCCGCTCCAAGACCCAGACACTCATCGCCAGCTGCCAGGAGCACCAGTCACAGCTGGCTCAGAGCTGAAACCCCCCGCACCCAGGAGTCACCTTCAGTGGGGAGCATGCCCCAGTCTGCCTCTGCAGGCAAATCCCCAGCTCAGAGCCTGTGTCCAGGAATCCCCAGGCTCTCAGCCCACCCTGGCCTCCTGAGTGAGGTCATCAGAAGGATGATCAGAGGGGGGTCGATACACGTGTGCTCAGtgtcaggcctctgagcccaagcctgcacgtatacatccagatgaagcaagtgaagaatcacaaaagaagtgaaaatggccggttcctgccttaactgatgacattaccttgtgaaattccttctcctggctcagaagctcccccactgaggcaccttgtgacccccactcctccccgccacagaacaaccccctttgactgtaattttccactgcccgcccaaaccctataaaacggtcccaccccatctcccttccctgactctcttttcttcggactcagcccgcctgcacccaggtgaaataaacagccttgttgctcacacaaagcctgcttggtggtctcttcacacggacgcgcacgaAACTCAGGATTGTACCCAGTCCACATAGACAAGTGTGTGCACATATGTGTGCTCTGCCTCCTGCCTGCCCTACTACTCTCTGTCCTGGTGGAGGAGCCCCCTATACGGAAACCCAGCTCCCGGCCCCTCTCTTCCCGCGTCATGCACCCTGGAGAAATGGAAATCAGCTGCAGTTGCCCAGCACTCCCGGGGCTGGTGGGCAGGCGTCTGAGAATGGGTTAGGGTTAGGGTCTAGACCAAACCCAGGGTTTGTGGCCCTCACACCAGGACACGAGGGAATGGGAGCCCTGACCAGTAAGAGGAGTGTTCCCAACAGCTACCCCAGAATCCTCTGCTACCCCAGAATCCTCAGCTCAGCTTCTAGGCCACAAGTAATCACCCAAGGGGTCAGACCCTGGGCTTTGGGGAGTCCCTGGAAGGATCAGAAGAAACCGCCCGGGGAGCAGGGCTCCAGGGATGGGCCCATGACCAGCTCCTGGCTATTTGGGGAAGAGGCAGAAGGGGGCCAGGCCAGCCAGTGTCCTGAAGTCATAGGCTATTTCTGAGGCAGCTGCCCCCTCCCCATATCCCAGGGTTTGGCAAGGGGTTCCCATAAGCACCTGGGCCCAGGGCCTGGCAGCACAGCCCCAGGCAGGGAGGATGTAGCTCACACACACCCAACCTCGGCCTGCCCAGTGGCTGCCTTCTCTGCCCAAGGAAGCTTTGGCCCTCCAGGGCTCATCAGACACAGATGGCCGCAGAGACCAGTCAAGAGGCCAGCAGCCACCCTGCTGGGAAGCTGCCAGCTCAAAGCTGTGTAGAGGAGTCCATGGGCTCTGACCTGACACCCACCTCAACAGCTGTCAGCACCCCCCTCCATCAGAGAGAAGACGGAGCCAGTGTGCTGGGCACCCTGGGGTCATAAGGCTGATACTAGAACCCTGGCCCCTGTAGCCAATACAGCCACATCTCTCAAAGACTTGTTTATAAAGGCTCCAGCGACTGATGGCCACACCTCCTACAGCTGGAGGCAGCTCCAGCCCCTCCACAGCCTGTGGCCTATTGTGGAGGTCGGGGGTCAGGGCTGCTCACCCCAGCACCAATACTAGCCTTCACTCCTTTCAAAGCCTCAAGGGTGTTCTCATCTCCATCTTCCACTGATATCCTTGCCTCCTCCAACAAGCCTGTTCCAGCCCAGCAGTGGGACAAACTGGGGACAGAGGAAGCCCCAGGCCCCCTCCTCTCACCTGGCACCACTTTCTCTTGTCCTGGACCAGCCCGCCAGCCCACTCTGCAGGCCACAGTTGGAACTCTCATCCCACCGCTTCCAGCCTGTGGTGGGAGCATGAGACCACAAACCAGGAAGTGGGGGGGGGGAGTGCCCAGAGATTGCGCAACCCCCAGCACTCAGTCCAGAACATCTGGAGAAGTTGGTTGCTGGCGCCCCGGTGCCGGCCTCTCCACCTCCTGGGGCAGGGGCCAATCTGCTCTCCAAGTGATTCTCTTTCCTCATAAGAAAGGTGGGGATAAAAACACCCCTCTGGGAGCCTCTGGACTCCCCGTGAGTTCTGCAAGGACCATGTATCACTTGTAACATCAGAATAAATATAAGTACAAAGTAACACCCATCCTCTCCCTGCCCATCAAGAGGACAAAGGCTCAACTGGGGCCTCAGTTTCCCTACTAGACTGAGGGGGAGCACTCGGGGGGATGGGGGGCTGTTCCCACAGGAAGGAGAGACTCATTGTTTGGGAGGCATGGCTGCAGATAAGCAGGGAGGGTGTGGAATCACATCCAGGGCTGCTTTATAAACACGGATTGATGACACATTATGCCCCCACCCCGGGAAGCGGCACACAGTGCTACAAACAGCTGGTGGCTTCCAGCCGGCTGATGGCCCCTCCCTCCCCAGGAAGTCCTGGCTGGGGCCCATGGGGGTGGGACGGCTGGTCAGAGGAGGAGAGGCAGTTGGAGACCAGGTCCTGCCCTGTTAGCCTTTCTGTAGGACCAGGTGTCACACTCATCTGAGGGCTCCAGACACATGGCCTGTGCGTCTGTCCTGCCCAGCGTCTCCCACCTGACGCGGCCAGGTGCCCAGTTGCTCTTCAAGGCCTTTTCAGGTGCTCCTTTCCAGGACCAGGGTCACAGAAGTCAAAGCTCAGGAAAAGCCCCTCGAGGGTTTTTGTGCGGCAGAGGTGGGTTGTGGGGTGGGATTGTGCCTGCCACAGTGGAGGGGCCCTGCAGACCCAGATAAACCTTCAAGTGGCCAGAAGCGGGGGATGGCTCTGCTGGGTGCTGGGGCTGCCATGGGCCGTGGGAGCCAGCAGTGTGCCCAGCTCCCTCAGGGCCCGTCCCCTAGGCCCTTCCGTCCACTGGGCCAAGCACCGTCCCTGCCCCTCCCTAGGGGCATGGATCTGACTTGAGAGGTTGTGAGAGCTTACAGGCGCTGGGCCGTCGGGGAGGCCTCAGAAGCGTAGGACGGCTGCGCACTGCCGGGCCGTGTTCAGCCCTGGTCTGGCCTCGGCCTCTAGAGGAGGCTGCCTGCGCTCCAGCAGGCCCAACCCAGAACGTGGGCGAGCTCCCTTCAGCATCCCTGGGCGGAAAGAGGGATGGGGGCTCTGCTGCAGAGGCAGAATCCGCGCCGCTCCCTCCTTCCTTCCCCCGACCAGCCTGTGACAACCCCGGCCAGGGGCGGGGGCCTCCGCACAAGCCTGGCGTCCACTTCCTGGATAAGGACTCCCCGGCCCACTCCGGACCAGGGCTGGGGCGGCCTCCCAGGCGCTCACTCCGCTGGCACCCCACCGGAAAACACGTCTGCGGCCCGCCCCCTCCCCCAAAGCACGACCACTCCGCCCGGGCCCCTCGAGGATCCACTCAGGTTCACGACGGGCCCGTCCTCTCGGTGGTCTGACCACCGGCTGGTGGAGTGGGCTCTGGGGCCGCCAGGCGACCAGGGCGCAGGCGGGGGCGGACAGCTCATTGGGAGGGGCGCCGGGGCACAGTGCGGGGCTCGCCCCACCCCCAGGTGCCCCTTCCCCGCTCTCGCCTCGCAGGCACCGCATCGGGCCCGGGAATCGGTCCGGACCTGGCGGTGGGCGCTGGGAAGAGGATCCACCTCCACGTggcccgccccgccccgggggcgcAGCCAGTTCCCGGCGCTCACTGCCCCCCTTCTCCCGGCTTCCGTCCCCTTCTGCGCAGGCGCCGCTCCGCCCCGGTCCTAGGGGTGCTTCCGTGGTCGGCGGCTGCTGGGCTCCGCGCCGGGGTCCGAGTCCCACGAAGCCCCGGCCCGAGCCGCCGGATGCCCGCGCGCAGCGGGGCCCAGGTGAGCGCGCGCCTCGGCCGCCCCGCGGAACAGACGCGCCCACCCCCAGGCGCAGCAGCGAGCGCGGCCGCGGGAGCGGGAGTGCCGGGGACGGGCGTAGCGCCCACCGCCCCGAGGGTTCGGGGCAGAGCCAGAGCATAGGCCAAGGGCCAAGCTCGGGCCGAGAGCAGTGGCCGCAGCGCCCGGGGGCTGAACCCACGGCGCGCTGGCAGCGCGGGCCGAGCTGCGGAGACGGTCACGTCAGCGTCCGTTCCAGGCCGACTGGCAGTCTCCGTTCTACATTAACGTCAGCACTCCCGTTAAAAATAATGCATCTCTCCCATGCCAGGAGGACTTAGGTGCTGCTAAAGACCAGCCCTCCGGGTGCTGCCAGGCCGGCGCTCACCCGCCACCTTCATCTTCCCTTCTCCTTTGCCCCAGGACAGCCGAGGATGTGTGGTTAGGTTCCCCCTACCCATGGGGAGGCCAGAGGTGGGAGGCTGGCGGCCTGCTCGGTCTCAGCAGACCCTCCTAGTCCCTCAGGAGACCTTGCCTTTGCCCCACTTGCTCGTTATCCAGCCTGGGCCATGAAGCAGAGGACAGTTAGGGACCCTGAGCACGCGGTGGTCACCCCGGTGCTCACCCCTCCCTGTGTGTCCGACCTTGGCCCTGCTAAGATCCTGTGTTTTGAATTCTGGCAAGGGTTGGATGAAAGGGCAGGGCTCCAGAAACCAGCTCAGACGTTTGCTTGGGACCTGCATGATGAGTGGGAATCGGAGGGCACCAGCCCTGCTGTCCCAGGCTCAGGCCCCCATCTGCTCCCCAGGTCATGCAGCCTGGGCCCCCATGCCGTGCAGCTCGCACATATGTGGGGCAGAGCAGCCACCCTGCCCCCAGCAGCAGCCGTCCATCGTCAGACGTGATCATTtcctgaggcctcgagtgtgtcagggtgtttgtgcctcataacaacccacaggatggtcacccccgctttgcagatgaagaaaccaaagcaGGTGGTCAGATCCAGTCCTTGCACTTCCTGAGCCTGACCTTACCACACAGCTGTCTCCTATTCGGATGCTTATTTATTTTTTTTCCCATTACAGTTTTGCCGACGGATGGGGCAAAAGAAGCAGCGACCAGCTAGAGCAGGGCAGCCACACAGCTCGTCCGACGCAGCCCAGGCACCTGCAGAGCAGCCACACAGCTCGTCCGATGCAGCCCAGGCACCTTGCCCCAGGGAGCGCTGCTTGGGACCGCCCACCACTCCGGGCCCATACCGCAGCATCTATTTCTCAAGCCCAAAGGGCCACCTTACCCGACTGGGGTTGGAGTTCTTCGACCAGCCGGCAGTCCCCCTGGCCCGGGCATTTCTGGGACAGGTAATGTGAACATAGCAGCGAGGGCCCTCCTGAAGTGCCTGTCACTGCAGTTGTCCCTGAACCCCTGTCCGCTGCCTGCTGGATTGGCCCTCAGTTAGTCCTCCTTGTCCTCATGCATTTAGCGGCTTTGCTCACACTGGTCCCTGCTTAGCTTCATCTCAGTTGCCTGAGGTCATCTGGGAAGAATGTAGAGATTGTCAGTGCTGCTTGCCCAGGGTGGAGCAGGGGTGCCACTGTCTGCCCCCGGCTCTGGGCATCTAGGGCAGGAGCACTTGCACCGTTAGCCTTCCTCACCGGCAATCCACCTCAGTTTTTCCACACGTGGGAACTGTGGCTGTGGCCAGTGTCGGGCTGCCCCTTCCCGCTGTAGTGGCTCACAGTGCAGTGCTGGCTTCCCAGGGCCCCTGCAGCTTAATGTAGGTCAAGGATCTGGGCTCTGCCAATCAGACTTGGAGTAAGAAGCAGGGACTGCCCAGGTCCCATCCTGGTGGGGCCTACGGTGCAGCCTGTCCCCACGAGCAGATGCTCACACAGCCGTGGCATCTTGGCTGGATCTGTTGGGAGCGAGGTGGTGGCGGTGGTCCTCGATGCCAAAGCCCCAGGCCTGCCTTTCTGGTTCTCCAGAGGCTCCAAGGCCTTCCCTTTGTCCTTTAATGAGCCTACTTTTAGGTTATAATCACCAAGAAGAACCAGAAGAGAAATACCAGTGCCAGGAGTTGGGTGCTAAAGGAGCAGACCCTAGAATGTGGGCTCGACCTCATGGAGAACAGAGAACATTCTGTCCCCATGCGGATCCTTCTAAAAGCACCTTAAGTAATGGGCATTTGTggccaggtgtggtggctcatgccggtaatcccagcactttgggaggcggaggtgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctgaccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtgatgacgggcgcctctaatctcagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacccgggaggcagaggttgcagagagctgagatcacgccattgcactccggcctgggcgacagggcgagactccgtctcaaaaataaaaaaaaaaTACAATGGGCATTTGTGATACAACAAAACAGCACGTGTGGCAGGTGCGTCGTAGGAACAGGGCAAGGGCGCAGCATGGCATCAGGGACCACAATACGTTTGTCTCTATTCAGCATCCTTGTCAGGCCACAGTCATGCCCACTTGAGCCCATTGGTGGACAAGATGATGTCCAGCAGAGAAGAGGGTGTCTCACCCTGTGTCCCTTGGATCAGGGACAGCCCTCTGCCCTCTCCATAACCTCCTAGTGGATGCCCTTGCAGACCCCTCAGCCAGGCTTGGGTCATGCACTCATCCCTAAAAGGGTCACTGCAGTGAGTTGCCATGAAATCCCAGGCCACTCTCTGGGCTGAGGAGGGTGTGGTCTCCCCCAGGAGGCTCTGCCAACAAGGAAGAGGGGTGTGTGTTGGCCATGGGGGTGGGGAGGGGTGAGAGGCCCCAGTATCTGCCACTGGTGGAAATGGTATCAGTGAAATCCTGATCAGAAATTTGGGATGGAAAAGGAAACAATGAGAAAAGGGCTGTGGGAACCTCCTCTCCAGAGTGGTAGTTGGGCCCCCCCAGTGTGCCCCCATGGAGGCACAGGAGTGTGCAGAGTGAAGCCCCTGGAGGGGCATTCCCTCTAAGCTCCAGGGAAGATGGAACAGGGCCACCCTTTCTCCCCTGGACATGGCCTGGCCAAGCCTGGCCTGTTCACTTCTGTCCTCATGGCTCTGGATGCCTAAGGATTTCTGGGCTTCCCGCCCAGGCACTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTATCTCCAGGAAGGCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCACACTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTATCTCCGGGAAGGCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCACACTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTATCTCCGGGAAGGCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCACACTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTACCTCCGGGAAGCCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCGGCGCTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTATCTCCGGGAAGGCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCGGCGCTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTACCTCCGGGAAGGCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCGCGCTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTACCTCCAGGAAGCCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCGCGCTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTATCTCCGGGAAGCCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCACGCTGGCCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTACCTCCGGGAAGGCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCACGCTGGCCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTACCTCCGGGAAGCCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCACGCTGGCCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTATCTCCGGGAAGCCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCGCGCTGACCCCTTCTTCCCACCACCCTATCTCCGGGAAGCCCTCCTGAATGCTCCCCCGGCGAGCATCTAAGCTCCAGTGCCCCTCCTCCCCAGCCCGTGATACTGACCATGGCCTTTGGCACCACAGGGCTTCGTGGGCTGAGGTGAAGGTAGCCTGGCTGTCCAGCTGACCTATCTGGCCTAAAAACGAGAGGTGCAGGGGATGTGGTTGGTCCCCAGTGCTCTGCTGTTAACTCTGGGGCTCCGAGCAGTGACACAACTGTTGGCCGTTACCAGGACCATGGTCCAGGCTGGGGCACCGTGGGGCAGCTGGGCCTACTGCTCAGAAAGCCGGAGGGTGGGAGCTGAGTATGAGGGTCCCTTGTGGCCACCTCAGCAGCCCAGGTTTAGGGGACTTCACGGGCTCTGGGATTGCCCAGGTAGCTGGTGTGGGGACATCCTTGGGGTCCTGTGCCTTCCGTGATGCCTGGCCTCGTGCTAAATGCTGATGGTTTTCTCAAGGGCACTTGGGAAAGGAGGAATCTGGGGAATGGAGGGTCCTGCTGAGAGGACTTGACCTGCAAGGTGAATCCATGACTGCCGGTTCCCAGCCCAGCCTGGCTGTGGCCTGAGGTATCTTCGGCCTGCGGTCTGGTTGTCTAGCAGGGCTGGAGGAGACAACTGGTGCCCTCAATAGCCACATTCAGCCTCAGCAGGAGCAAGAGAAGAGGCAGGATGGAGACGGGGCAAGGTCCCTGGCTAGACCTGGGCGGCTGACACACCCTGAGCTGGGGAGATGAGGTCCAGGCTGGGCACTGTTAGGGTGAGTGGACCCCCATCCCTTCCCGCCCTGAGCAGAAACTGACTGCCCACAGGTCCTAGTCCGGCGACTTCCTAATGGCACAGAACTCCGAGGCCGCATCGTGGAGACCGAGGCATACCTGGGGCCAGAGGATGAAGCCGCCCACTCAAGGGGTGGCCGGCAGACCCCCCGCAACCGAGGCATGTTCATGAAGCCGGGGACCCTGTACGTGTACATCATTTACGGCATGTACTTCTGCATGAACATCTCCAGCCAGGGTGAGCAGTGCTGGGGCACGGGGGGTTGGAGGGCCGGCAGAGCCCTGTCCGCTAGCAGCCAGGGGACCACTAGGAGGACTGAGGTGGGGCCAGCATTTGAGCGAGGAGGTGCCACTTCCAGGCCAGGCCAGGGTTTCGGGAGCTCTGGCTACGCTGACGGGGCAGGGCTGGTTAGGTTAAAGGGGTAGAAAGGGCCGGGTGGggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtcatcccagcacttcgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcgacaccagcctggccaacacggtgaaactctgtctctaccaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtggtagtgggctcctgtaatcccagctactagggaggcggaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggaggcggaggttgcagggagccaagatcgcgccattgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcgagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggaaaggaaaagaaaGGGTTGGTTGGAGTGGAGGCAGAAAGAAGGCCGAGGACACAGTGTCGCCTGCCCTTGACGGAGGCAGCACATGAGGATGAGAAGCTGATTGGAGAAGAGGATGACTGCAGTGCTAAGAGCAGCGTGGTCAGGTTGCCAAGGATGGAGCAGTGGGCACAGCAGGGGGACTTAGGGTCGGCGGAGGAGTCGGTGAGGAAAGGGAGGTTTGGCAGGAAGTGATCAAAGGGGTCATGTTTTTGTCAGGATGTGGGACTTGGATGTGTTCTGTGTGAAGGAGCCAGGGCACGGGGCTGTGGTGATGAGGGCGGCCAGGCTTTGACTCATTTGCAGGCGGCTCTGTGGGGGCTCAGTGAGACAACGAGGGGCGTGTGCCCTGCACCCACAGGGATGTAGAGGGTCCTGCTCCTCCCTACTGAGGTGGGTCAGGGTGGGCAGCAGGCACCCCACCTGGTGAGCTGGAAGCAGCGTGGGAATCACAGAATGGACGGGAACTTAAAGGCTTTGCTTGGCCTGGATTTTATCTTGAAATACTTTTGACAGCTGGCTGGTTGAGGGTATCTGCTCACAGGAACGCCGCATTTGCTGGCTTTGTCCACTAGTGCTCGCCCCTGGCTGCTGATGCGGAGCCTCACGTGGCCGCAGCCCAAGAGTAGGGACTGGCTTGGCCACCTCCAGGCTAAGCTTCGGACTCCCAGGTGGCTGGGAGGGCCAGGGGTGCACAGGTGCATCAGAGCAGGTGCTGCCTTGCTGGAGGGCCAGGGCTCTTCTGGCCAGGGTCCAGGTCATCATTGTCCCCAGCCAGGAATCCAAGGGGCCTTTCCAAACCTGCAGGGCAGAGGGAATTCGGGTATCTGTGCTTGAGTGAGCCCCTGGGCCCAGGAGCCTTCGCTTGCTGTCTCTGTTTCTCAAGGGGCCTGGCCTGGTGAGGGAGGGGGCTAGGCTGGAGGAGGGATCCCAAGGGAGGTGAGGGGGCTTTGTCAGCCTCCTCCTGCCCTGCCTGTGCAGGGTGTTGCAGTCAGTCCTTCCACTGAGTCATTGCATGGGCTCTCCCAACATCCGGTGCACACTGGCAGCTGCTCTAAGCCAACTCCTAGCCCCCACCACTTGACCAACACAAACACTGAGTGGGTGAGGCAGAAGGGGAGCGCTGGGGCCTGGCTAGGCCAAGGCTTCCTGCTTCCTGGCTGAATGATCGCACCCGAGGACTGGCTCTCTGGAGCTTCCTTTGCTGGCTTTATAGCTGCTGCCAGTCACAAGACCAGGGGAAGCCAGGTGGAAAGGAACTGATACCCAGCATTTGTCATGTGTTTTTAACAGTCTGGCTTTGTGGGGGCGGCCACAGTGGGGGAGGCCCTGCCTGGTGGTGGAAGCCAGAGGTGCCCACAGGAGGCACACCTCATGGTGCAGGCTTGGAGGATGGCAAGGTAGGCAGAGGGGTCTGGACACAGTGAGGTGCAGCCCCCTCCCACCAGGTCAGACCCAGGAGATGGTGCAGGTGCACAGAGCAGGTCCCTGGCCCAGGCAGGAAGGCAGCTGCACCCTCCCTGCAGCACAGGATGTCTGGATGTGTACTAGGGCAGAGAGGACAGGAGCCTAGGGAGGCTCCACTTCCAAACTGTCCGTCCCACAGGGGACGGGGCTTGCGTCTTGCTGCGAGCACTGGAGCCCCTGGAAGGTCTGGAGACCATGCGTCAGCTTCGCAGCACCCTCCGGAAAGGCACCGCCAGCCGTGTCCTCAAGGACCGCGAGCTCTGCAGTGGCCCCTCCAAGCTGTGCCAGGCCCTGGCCATCAACAAGAGCTTTGACCAGAGGGACCTGGCACAGGATGAAGCTGTATGGCTGGAGCGTGGTCCCCTGGAGCCCAGTGAGCCGGCTGTAGTGGCAGCAGCCCGGGTGGGCGTCGGCCATGCAGGGGAGTGGGCCCGGAAACCCCTCCGCTTCTATGTCCGGGGCAGCCCCTGGGTCAGTGTGGTCGACAGAGTGGCTGAGCAGGACACACAGGCCTGAGCAAAGGGCCTGCCCAGACAAGATTTTTTAATTGTTTAAAAACCGAATAAATGTTTTATTTCTAGAAAACTGTGCCTTAGCCAGAGCTCCTCTAGGTGATCAACCCATGTCTGGAGCTAGCTCTTCCTCCAGGACACGAGAGCTGGGGGCCTGAGTACGTAGCGCCAGGCCCGGTGTGGATGCTGGGGAGAATCATCAGTGTGGGAGCCGAAAGCCCCCGAGGGTGGGGTCCTGCACAGTGGGCCATGCCTCCACCAGCAAGATGTGCACAGGTGACAGGGCTTCTCCAGCCTAGCAGGGCCAGCCCAGGCCCTCGTGCCCCAGATGGTCAGGACCAGGTCACAGCTTGGCTATGAGCCTGTTTGCGGCTTCTGTGGACTGTGGTGAGGACTGGGCCAGGAAAGGCTCAGGGTAGCCTGGGAGGAAGAAGCGCATGGCAGACAGAGGTGCTGGGGAGGGGGCCACAGGGCACTTCACAAATAGAAGGCTGTCAGAGAGACAGGGACAGGCCACACAAGTGTTTCTGCACATTCTTCAGGGTGGCCACAGACTGGGGGGTCCAAGGAGCAGGTGTAGGGACAGAAGGAGGGTCTGAGAAACGCACAGCCCACATGGGCCTTGAAGGATGCGGCCTCACCCAGAGACAGGAGTCCTGGCAGGCCCCCCTCCAGCGTGGAGATGCCTACGCGTGCGGCAAGGACTGGAGGGAAGCGTAGGAACACAGAGGGCAGCAGCCCCACAGCGGAACCACCAGGGGCAAGGACAGCGGGGCTCTGCAGGCTTCACTGGGCCACGGCCAGCCCGCATCCACCCAATGCCAGGCCTCAGGGCCAAGAGGGCTCAGCCTCAGCACGGGGGGAGCCCTGGGGTGGGGAGACGCGAGCGCCCACCTGCGCACCCCAGCAGCCTTCCGCCCTCCGCCTGGGCTCAGGGGAGCAGAGCCTGGAAGACGGCAATGACAGGGTCCTCGTGGGTGGTCACCACCAGCACGCTGCGGAACTTGTCAAACAGCATGAGCAGCTGGGAGCGCCGCGTGTTCTCGTTGTACATAATCTCCTCCAGGTGGTGGCGGCCGCGGAAGTAGTGAAGGAGCCTGGAAGGGATGGGTGGGTGTGAGCCCAACCTGACACCAGCCCCCAGAGGCCTCTGCTGAAGAGCCACTGCTGGGAATCAGCTCTGAGCTGCCCACAGGCCTGAACAGAGCTGGTGGTGAAGGCCAGGGAGGCAGCCACCACAGCCCCCCAACAAGGGTGGGCAGGCCTCCTGGACCCCATGCCCACCACGGTCCCGCTGACCACCAGGTGGGCGGAGTGGGTTCAGGACGGCAGACGGCTGTTCAAACCCAGAGGTGCCCAAGCCTGCGTCCTGATGTTGGGACCAGGGTTCTGCTGGTGGCTTCTTTTTCGTGCTACAGTGAGTCCCACGTAGCTCTGGAGCCAAATGGTCACTGCttttttttttcctttttttgagagacggagtctcactcagtcacccaggctagattgcagtggctcgatctcagctcactgcaacctcccgcctcccagattcaagcgattctcctgcgtcagcttcccaggtaagctgggactacaggagtgcgctaccacacctggctaatttctctcttttttagtagagacagggtttcattatatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgaactcaggtgatccacccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgagattataaccgtgagccactgtgcccagccTGCttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgctgcccaggctggaggtgcagtggcgcgatctgggctcactgcaactcccgccttcccgccattctcctcctcccgccaagctccgcctcccgccttcaggccattctcctgcctcagcctccccagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgccaccacacccagctaattttttgtattttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttagccaggatgatctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccacccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcgcctgactttttttttttttttttttaatGTCACCATCATTTGGAAGGTCACTGCTTTAGGGTGCTTTCTGCAACTCAGGCTGGCACAGAGGAGGCTAGGATGCAGGTGAGACCTGGACCAGCTGCTCAGAAGAGTTGCAAGTGGTTCTCTCGAGGGCCGAGTGTGGTTCTCAACCGGAAACTCAGTCCCTGACAACCCGACCACTCCCGGGAAACTATGCCCCTGCACTGTCCCCCAAGTCAGGGTGGGGCTGACAGAGACCACTGAGCCACATCACCTTTAACATGGGGGACCCTGGATGCCCGCAGGGCTTACAGTCCTGGGCAAACCCCTGCCAAGTCCCATGAGGGTGAGAACTTGGCACTTaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaagcggagcttgcagtgagccgagattgcgccactgcagtccgcagtccggcctgggtgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaCTTGGCACTGCCTCTCAAGGGAAAAGGAACATCTAAGAAGTACTGGAGAGAGAAGAGTCCGAAAAATAGGCATGCCAGGCCCATGGCCCGGCGTCTTGGTGACAAGCCGAACCCTCAGGCCTGGGCAGTGGCACCTGCCCCTACACACCTGAATGCAGAGACTCCATCTCGAACAGGGCCCCATCTGTTCTCAGTGGATTTGGTGGTTCTGTTGCGTACGTCCCTATCCACTTTCTGCCCTGACCCTGCAACTGGCCCCAGTCCCAACGGGTCAACCTACACCCACCTGGCAAACATGCGGAGGTCCTCAGGGTTCTGGGCTGCGGGTACACTGAGGATGGCTGCGCGTTCATGCTCCGACAGCTGGCCAGCAGGTTCTCCGTCATCCTCTGGTTCAGTGGCGAGTCCCCGCTGGGAAGTAGCTCTGCGCTGGAGTTGTCCATGCTGGGGCTGGTGAGGGTCATGTCATCGCTGCTGGCTGTGGGGGACATGGGTCAGGGTGACCAAGTGGAATTCCAGGACACCCAGGGGAACAGCGAGGGCAGAGCCAGCAGCCAGCCTCCAATGACACCCCTAACTCCTACAAGGGTTAGGGTACATCTGCCTGCAAGCATTCGCTGCTGCCCCACCTCCTGGGTGTGACACGCCCCTCATACGGCTGACTTGGGAAACGGGTAGCCTCCCCTCTGGGGGCAACCTCAAGGGACCTGAACAGAGGTGCGATGTGTGCCCCACAAACACCCCAAGGTGGGCCTGGGCATCCTGTCCCTCACCCAGGATGGAGGACAAAGCACCCTGGGCAGGTGGGGTCCTCACATGAAGCATGAAGCCTACAGCCAGACCTCAGCCAAGGGGGGACTTTCAAAGTCTTCCACCCCCTTCCTTCCCCAAGCCTGGGGACCGGGGACCTGGGACCTGGCAACAGGCTGCTGCCCTCAAGCCACACTGGCCATGACGGCTCTTCTGGGGCGCAGAGGTGTCAGCTGTCCTGGTAGTGGTATGAGATCCTGCTCTGCTCCCAGGCTGGGGCAGAGATTCCAGCACTGATTTGCTGGGCTGGGAGCTGCCCCTAATTCTAGCAAGCCTGCTGAAGAGCCCGGAGACAGAGCTGCCACCTCAGAGTCACGGTGGTGCTAGGAGACAGGAGAGGTGTCTCCACGGGGGACACGAGGCACGTGCATGTGCGTGTGCAGCTGTGTGGAGGCCCCTCATCACTCACAGCACCACCCACGTTGAGCCTCCTGGATGCCACCCCCAAGCGTCTCCCCTGACTACCACAGCGGTGCCCTGGGGGTCCTACTTGGGGAGCCAAAGCTGAGGGCGTTGGGCGTGCTGAGGCTGCGACCGCCGACCCGGGCAGTGAAGGGGACGTCGTCCTCTCGCGGACGGGGCTCCTCCTCGCTGGGTGAGGCCATCAGGCAGACATAGGTGTGCAGCTGGATGAGAAGCCGGCGCTGCAGCATCCACACCACCATCTGGATGAGCTGGGTCTGCGGGTGGCAGCAGGTGAGGCTGGTCCCCCTCCCCACTCCAACTTCCTCCTGGGTGATCAGGGAGCCATGGCCCTAGACATGGCCACAGCACGCTCCCTGTGCTGACGCACAGGCAGAAAGGCCCTCTTCTCAGAAAGGGAGCCCCCAGCTGCCAGCCAGCTCTGCAAGGCCCGCTCACCCTCCTGGGAAGGGAGAGGGGCCAGGGGAACATCTGGATCACACCTGCACAGGCTCCCACCACACACCGGGGCCACCCAGCATCTGGCTGAGGAGCAGGACCTGAGACGTGGAGGCCCCTGTGACTGCTTCGCTGAGCAAACCCCCCACCCTGTGCTGCTGCAGCTGCCCCTCTGCCTCCTCTCTTCTTTGGCCCACTGGCCCTGGAGTTGGACCCAGCCAGCAAGTCCACCTCCACACAAGCCCAGACACTGTTTAAAAAGAGGCTGTGGGCAGGTACCCTGAGAGCAGAAAGTCCTCTCCTTGGATCTACCTGAAAGTCCACCCTGAGCACAAGAGTGGATCCACAAGAAAGCTGAGGCCAGTGACCCTGGGCTTGGGGGTGGAGCACCCCACCCCCACCCCCACCGTGAGAAGGCACGTCCTGGCCAGGCCCTCCAATGTCTCTGGGTTAGCAGGTGGGGCTGGCAGTGAGGAGCAGTGAGGAGCCTTGTGCCAGGTAGAGTCCAGTCCCCATGAGAAAGTACTGCCCAGACTCAGGCGTTGAACAGTAAGGAGTGTGAGACACATCAGTGTCCTCAGATACACATCTGTCTACTCATCTCTGGGAGGGTCAACAAGGAGCTGCTGGCCAGGGTCACCTCCTGGGAGGGGGCTGGGGAACTGGGGATGGGAATGGGGGATATATCCCAGGCAAGTAAGAAGACTTGGTCAAAAGGACTGCAAGATATCCAGACTTCACATGAATTTAAGAAATAAAACAgacgcgggtggatcacttgagctcaggagttcgagaccagccttgccaacacagtgaaacctcatctctactaaagatacaaaaattagccgggtgtggtggcacacacctgtaatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacctgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccaagatcacgccactgtacttcagcctggacaacaaagcaagtttctatatcaaaacaataaaaaaaaagctgggcgtagtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgagaggatgaggtgggtggatcacctgaggtcaggagttagagaccaccctggtcaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcgtggtggcgggcacctgtaaacccagctactcgggagggtgaggcaggagattgcttgaacccgggaggcaaaggttgcagtgagccgagatcatgccattgcactccagcctgACGTGCAATCAAAATTAAATAAAATCAATAAACCAAAAATAAAACAGAGGGGCTTCCCAGCACTGGAGCCCAGGCAGAACCTGGCTGACCTAGGCCCCTTGACAAGGCCTGGAGCAACCACTCAGTCATGGCCTGGAAAAGCCACTCCGTTATCTAGACCACAGGAGGCCTCTGAGAAGGGAGCACCAGCAGCTCCTCCCTAAGCACTGCCCCAAGAGCAGGGGTGCAGAGAGTGCCTTTTATTCAGCTGGTACAACCTGGCTCAGCTCCCAGAAACCAAGGGCTCTGTGAAAGACCGCACTGAGAGCTCTGTCAGGTTTAGCGTCTAACGGAGCTGAAAAGCCAGAATCGTTCTCATTCGTAATTTGAGAACGGAAAGGGTTTAACTTTAAGGACTGGTTTTGCCTAATAGATCTGGCACTTACTCAGATACTTCTGGAGACAAAGACTTGAGAACACCCAGCTCGTCTGTCTCCAACACCGTATCCTATCTGGCCCTGCTCTGAGTCTCTGCCCAGAACTCAGTGGAGGGGAGGATGGCAAAGCCACCTCAGCACAAGGCTATGACACCTGCAGCCCACAGGGGAAGCCACTGGCCCTGCCACAGATGCAGGTGCACCAGTTCATCCCACAGACCTGCAGGAGGCCTCCTATCCCCCAGCCACTCCTAGCTCCCAACCTGCCTGCCCGTTGCCCTGATCCAGGCCCACTAGGGTCCTCTCTAGGCTCTCTTGAATGAGGAGATTCTGGGGACCAGTGACCCCAGAACTCATACCCACAGACCCTGTGGCCACCTGAACCATGGCAGGGAGTGAAGACAGAAGCAGAACTCTCAGAGGGTCAGGCCTGGCCCAGTGAGAACAAAACTGCCTTTGCACCCTCATCTGTAGGCAGTCCCCAGTCCCAAAGGGGTACAAGGCAGGTCTGTAGGCCCAGAAAAGGTAAGCACTCTCCTGCTTAACTCGGTTCTAACACTAAAAACTGCCTGCCACAGCCAGGGTGGGCTCTATGGGGAGGGAACAACTGCTCAAGTGTTGGGTCACTGGCCAAGCATCTGCAGGTGGCCCGGCAGCTGACTTTTGGGTCCTGCTGGGCACGTAGCACTTGCACGGCAAGCCCCCAAAACCAAGGAGAAGCAGGTGGCAGTGCTGAGGGCTCTCAGATCAGAACCAACAGCCAGGCAGGTAGTGCCTATCCACTACACACCTGCCACTCTGGGCTCCTTGAGCTTCTGTGACTCACCTCCTGCACAGCGGGGGCCAGGGGATTCCTAAATTCTGACAAGGAGACCGGCAAGGAGAACTTGGCAAGAACGGACGGCAGGTCATGAGATGGGAACTGGTGGGAGAACTGCTCGGCCAGCGGGGAGTACCTGCAGGCAGGTGAGCATGCCAGTGAGTGCAGCAGACCCCCCCACCGTGTTCTCAACACTGGCCTCAGTGGGCAGCAGAGAAGCAAAGTGTGGCAGGTGGGTCAGGACAGTGCGATGAGGGCAGAACGGTATGAGGCCAGGCAGGCCTCCAGGTGGACAGAGCCTGGGCACTTCCCCTTGAGCAGCAGCAGGAGCCATGGGCACAGTTCATCCTGCATCTCACCTCTGATCCCTCAAGGTGGATTAGAAGAGCCAGCCTGGAGGAGGGGGCCAGGCATATGGGGGACACAGGAGAGCCACAGAGCACAGAGCCAGACCAGAATTGGGACCTGGGTATGCTAGTGGCCAGGAGTTAGGCTGAAGTGAGAGCCTGGCCTTGGGGCTTCCACAGCCTTTGGTGCCTGGCCAACACAGAGAACAGCATCTGGAGGGCCCTGCCAGCCTCACCCCTTCCCACTCGGGGCTCCAGGCTCTGGCAGCCAGCAGCACTCACAGACATACGCTGGCATTGGGAGACAGCATGTAGACGTTGTTCTCACACAGCGGGTAGATGATGATGGCCTTGCCCCAGTACACCAGATGAGCTGCAAGCTGGAAAACCTGCAGGCAAAAGGGAAGCTGCAAGGACCATGCCTGAGGCTGGCCCACCGGGAGCTGTCAGCAGCTCTCAGCCTGGGTGGCCATGGCCTACCAGCCTGGAGAAGCTGGCCCCAGCCTCATGCAGAACACACCTGGTGGCTATGGCCCGAGACTTCCTCCCTAACGTGGAATAGCACCTTCGCAACCTCTCACTAGGATGTGGGGCACAGCCAGCACACAGCACTTTCTGTGAGCAATGGtttttttttttttttttttggagacagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatctcagctcactgcaacctcttgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcacatgccaccacgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacagggtttcaccatgttggccaggatggtctcgatctgacctcgtgatccacccaccttggccttccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcacccggccACAATGGCCTTTTTGTCACTGCTCCCTGTGCTGTTTGGTGGCACTGTTTTCCCATCCTATGCTGTCTTGACTCCCACTGAAGAATGGTGGTCTCAGGCCACAAGCATGGGAATGTCTGGGGTGCTGGGAACACAGTGCTGGCCCAGCTGGGCAGGGGGCTTAGCTGGATGTCCTGGCAGGGGCACAGCCCTCTTATACCCCCTAAAACTCCAGCATGGCCTTGCCCGATGATGGGTGTGGAGTCACTCAGCATGCCACCCCTACATACCCAAAGGCCCCAGGTCTGCCCCATGTGCCCCGACTCCCACAGAGACCCCCCTCCCAGCTTTGCTCTTGTGGACCCTTGAACATCAGGAAACACAAACACAACCCAAACCCCTTCCAGAGGAAAGCTCAGGCCTGAGGTCTGAGAGCACAGCACCCCAGCACTTCACGAAAAGGTGTGTGAAATCCTAAGCTCTCGCACTTCTGCCTCTGCATCAGCCCAGGACACCACTCCACCCTCTTGGCGGGTAGGCCTCTGTGGAGGTGAGTCACCCCTGCCTGGACACCGTGCTGCCCTGCTGCTGAGGACACTTATACCTCAGCTCAGAAAACAGGGCCTCCAGACTGAGTGAgtggctcatgcctgtagtcccagcattttgggagggcaaggcaggaggatcgcctgaacctcggagttcgagaccaacctgggcaatatagtgagaccctcatctctgccaaaaatttttatttaattagccaggcactgcggcacatgcctgtagtcccagctacttggaggctgagacaggaggattgcttgcacctgggaggtgggggttgcagtgagccaagattgtgcGAGTAGTGCCCCCAATGGCTCCGCCAACCCCGACATGGCAGGTTTCAGCTCCATCACCGCCCTGTTCCCTCACCCCACGTGCCACTCGCATGTCTCTCTCAAAAAGACACCCCCACTTTCCCCCAGCTCTGCTCAGCATAGTGGTCTCCACCTCCTGCCTCTCCCTGCAGCAGCCTCTCCAAGATGCTGTCCAttctggaaattgaaaatccaaaatcagtacttaagggcaagcataaggtgccagcaggaccaggctccctctggaagctccagaagagaattcgtcctgcctcttcAACGGCCAGTGTCTCTTGGCTTGCGGTCAcgtcactccactctgtctctgtggccacatcgctgcctctttttatcagatcttcctctgcctccctctgataagggccttagagattacatttagagctcaacaggatgatcttcccatctcaagatcttctacttagtaacatctccaaagtcccacatgagttcacattcatagattttggggattaggatgtgtatatctgtgggggccattattcagccaatcacaACGAATATACAGCACGATCCTAATTTTCATAATACAAAATAAAATGTTTGTGTGTGtatatatatatatatatatatatatacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacaATAAAATGTATATATACAGATAAAAAACCTGGAGGGATCTAGGTTACCTGTGGGATATGGGACTGTGGGAACTTTCTGTGTCTATAATTTGTGTAGTGTTTGAAGTCTTGTAACATACTAATTTTATCATGACACACCCAAAATTTACTTGTAGATTCTCTCTGGATTGATATAAACATGAAGAattttattttattttattttttgagactgggtcttgctctgttgcccagactgcagtgtgtaaaatcacaattcactgcagcctcgaacaccagggctcaagtgatcctcccacctcagcctcctgagtagctgggaccatgggcacacaccaccatgcccagctaattatttaattttctgtaaagacagggtcttcctatgttgcctaggctggtcgtgacctcctgggcttaggcaatcctcctgcctcatcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccactgcacccagccACATGAGGGACTTTAAACTATCTGGTGACATTCACACCTGAGGCAGGTGCTCCCCAGGGGGCTATCTCCGGAAACAGAGTGACCCACCAGGGCTGGGCCCCAGGGGCTTCCGCACCGCCACACCAGCAGCAACGCCCTGCTGACCTGCAGCAGGGACAGCAGGGAAGGGGTACAGACAGAAGAAAACAATGACAAACAGCCTTCCCTCTCCCCAGTCAAGGCCACGGCAGGGAAGTGAAGGGGACATCAAAAGGAGACCAAAGCTTTGTCCAAGGAGACTCTGAGAGCAAGGGTGAGAGGCACACTGTCCACACAAACTCCTGCCAGACAACCTCAGAAGAGGGCATCAAAGCTTTGTCCAAGGAGACTCTGACAGCAAGGATGAGAGGCACAGTGTCCAGCACAAACTCCTGCCAGACAGCCTCAGGAAAGCCAGGCCCAGCTCCTTTCAAAAGCTCAACACAGGACCAGTGAACAGCCACAGGCATTTACCATGTGGTCGGTGCTCATCAGGACACGGAGGGTCACTGCCTCCCTCACTCTGCAGGGTTGTATGGAGTGGTGAGTTCTTTTAAAATTCTCTGTCTCCTGAATGCTATGAAGGTGGGCAGGACATGGTGTTTACTGAGTCCTGTCCAGCCCATGAAGTCCAAAGGCACagctgggcatggtggctcatgcctgtaataccagccctttaggaggccaaggtgcgatgatcacttgagcccaggagtatgaggccagccagggcaacatagggaaaccccgtctctaccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaatattagccaggcgcacacctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggatgcttgagcctgggtggatcatgatggcaccaccacatgccagcctgggagacagagcaagaacctgtctcagaaaagaaaaaagaaaTACAAGGGCACAATTTGGTAAGTGCTCTCACAGAGGATAGATAAAGGGTCCTGAGATACAGAGGCGGGAGACTTACTCTCAAAGACAGAATCCAAAAAGGCTGCTTTCGGGGAAAAGTGGCCTGAGAGTCAGGCCTTGTTGGACAAGTTCCCCTAACGTGCTAAGCAGAGACCTGTTTCACAGGCCAAAAGAGCATGGAAGCTCAGCCAGAGGGACCCAGGCGGGCCCACCTCACGCCTGTGTTCCTCGGCAGCCTCTGCTGCCCCCTGGTGGCCATGCTGTGCACACCGCCACCAGACGAGGGCGCCACCCACAGGCACCACCTGCTCCCACCCTCAGGCAGTATTTCAATGGTCCCGTGGCTCTGGGCCACGCCCACATGACTAGCAGCCACAGCTGATCCCATGGCCTGTTGGCCACCCCATCAGCAGCCCCTGCTTCTGATTTCTCCCCGTGCtttttttttttttggaaacagagtcgcccaggctggagtacagtggcacaatctcagctaactgcaacctctgcctcccaggctcaattgatcctcacacctcatacccccaagtagctgggactacaggtgcacgccaccacacccagctattttttttttttttttttttgtattttttgtagagacggggttttgccatgttgctcaggctggtctcaaagtcctgggctaggatgacaggcatgagccaccgtgcccagccTTGCCTGCGCTTTTCCTCCCACACTCCAACCAGATCCGCAGACGAGGCTGAGGGGCCCTCCATCTAATCAGAAAGGGCAGCCCTCTGCATGGACAGGCCCATAAGCATGTGGCTCAGCAAGGACGTGGCATCTTGTACAGAGTGCACAGGCCAACACATGTGCACACACAGGGGCGTAAGGCCACCAGGTTAGGTCTCTGTTCTGCACATGGGAGGGCCCCGCATCCAAGCTTCCTGCCCTTAGTTCCCGTATGTTGTTCATGCACCACTGTGAGACCCCCATGGCCCTGCCCGCTGCTGCCCTGCCCACCCCCTAGCTCTGGTGCCTCAACCTCCAGGACTGCAAGCACCCCAGTCCTTTCTCTCACAGACTCGCCTTACCTCTCTGAGACAGAAGAACAAGTCAGTCCCGTGGCTCACTCACAAAGCCAGCCCTGAACCCAGGTCTGACTCAGATGCCAAAACCTCCAGCCATCCCAGGGACTGGCCCCACCCCATGGTGGGCTGTGCCGCGGCTCTCAGCTGGACACAGCCCCTGTGGATGTACTGTGGCAGGCGGCCTGCCTTTCCTGATGCCCCAGCACCGCCACATGCCACCCATCTGGGCCTCCAGAGCTATACCTGCAGCAAGGCCAGGTCCGCATCTTGGGCTAGCTGCTGCAGGTTCTTCACAGCAGATGTGGTCTTGATCACCCGCACTAGGGCAGGGGAGCAGTCAATAGGAAGCTCACCCAGCAAGGACTTCTCATCACTGAGCAGCAGCAGGGCATGGTAGGGGCTGCAAAACAATCACCTGTCACGGAACACACGAAGTGCAGGAACCCtgcaccgggtatgcaccaggtcctgcaccaggtatgcaccgggtatgcaccaggtcctgcaccaggtatgcaccgggtatgcaccaggtatgcaccTGGGACTCAAACACACGGAACATACGAAGTGCAGGGAACcctgcaccaggtatgcaccaggtcctgcacgaggtcctgcaccgggtgtgcatcaggtatgcaccTGGGACACAAACAGGCAGCTGGAGCCTCCTGGCCCTTAACTGCGGAGAGAAGGGCCAAGAGCGGGATTTGAGAAAAGGGCAGTGGTCTGTTTGGAGGCCTTCACAAAATCTGCCAAGGACtggctcatgcctataatcccggcactctgggaggccaaggcaggcaggtcacgtgaggtcaggagttcgaggccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaataaaaaaattatccgggtgtggttgcacccacctggggtcccagctactcggcaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgagcctgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagattgcgccattgcactccagcctggcgacagagtgagactctgtctcaaaaacaacaaaaacaaaaCCTGCAAGGATTATGTCACCCTCGGAAAAAAACACGACAAAAGTGGGGAAGGCTCGAAGACTGGACTCTGTATCCCACCTCAGAGACGCCCAGCAAACATCTGTTGATTGAAGACATGAATGAATCTTTCCTAAGGAAATTGTCCCAAATATGGGAAAAGCAAAATCCTCCTCACAGACTAGGGACCAAAGTACATTAAAATATGCTTAGCTAGGATTGAAAGCAAAGAGCACGGACTGGGGAGGGTGGAACTAGGCAGCGCTTTGCTTTCTGTCATTTCCAAATTTTCAGCAATGTGCCCAGatatatttttataattaaaaaatGTTCAAGGTATTGGGGGACTTGGGAACAGGTGGTGCCAGAAGACTGGGCTCAGTTCTTTCCTTGCAGAAAATCAATTAAATTGCCAgggcatggtggctaacacctgtaacccagcactttggcaggccgaggcgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagttcaagacgagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggtgtagtggtgtgcacccataatcccagctactcagggggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggagacagaggcttcactgagtggagactgtgccactgcacttgagccccgagcaagactacatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTCAATTAAATTAAGAAAGTATattttgggaggctgagatgagcgatgagtggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagtctggccaacatggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaagtaccaaaaaaattagccaggcatggcagtgggcgcctgtaatcccaactactcgggagcctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacttgggaggtggacgtagtggtgagccgggatcgcactactgaaatccagcctgggcgataagatcaaaactctgtctctctctcacacacacacacacccccgcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaagaaaaaaaaaagaaaaagaaaaTAACTGAGATCCCATGAGTGCTGACTGAAATGCAAAAGACTGGGGTAGGGCAACACCATTAAGATGAAGTCCCTCCAGCCCTCCGGCCTCCCCAAGGACACTCAGCCCCACATCCAGGCTGCCCTGCCCAAGCCTAAGGTGGTGCCAGAAGGGCCCAGGAGAAACCTGGGATTGGTCATTTCTGGACACAACTGGATACAAAATTATGTGTTTTAACTTCTATAAACGGCAGAGCCCCACCTGCAAGCTTCCGCAGTGGGAAGAAGAAAAAGAGAAATTTTGGAACAAAGTAAGTGGTAAAATCTCAGGCAGAAGCTAAAGGGAAGGGCCCTGGCAGGGAGTGAGCACGTGGGGCTGGGCACTTACCGGATGGCTTTCAGGCTCCGTTCGATGGCCTCTGGGGGGATCAGACTGGAGGCCGCATAGTGGATCTTGTGGGGCAGGCAGAAGCTCACCTCCAGCCAGCTGTTGATGTGAAGCCGAACTACGCCCGACGTGCACAGGCTGCAGAGAGTGGGCGCTGTTACCCGTTCACATAAACTTTCTAACCATGCACACAGATCAGAAAACACCCTGCTCAATGGTGCTGATTCCCCTGCTGCTTAGGGGAAACTGCAGGTGGAGACCCGGGCAGGAGAGCATCTCTTAAGATCACATTATGTTTAAGAAAAGAAAATATGGGggccgggcacggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggcggatcacgaggtcagcagttcgagaccagcctggctaataacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacccaggaggtggaggttgcagtgagctaacatcacgccactgcactccagcctgggcaacaaggcaagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggaagaagaaGAAGAAAGAAAAAGAGAAACATATTTCTGGCTAGCCCTGGAATCTGTAGTCCAACCAGACTGCCAGGGCTTGAGAGAAGCCGTACCCTGTCCTGGGGACTCAGTGCACTAGAGGCACTCTAACTCAGGCCCCTGCCCGTCCAGACCCCTGGCAGACACCCAACACCCAGAGTACATCCTCCCTGTGAATGGGCCTGCCCTGCACACCTCATGAAGACCCATCACAGGTGCACGTCCAGGCAGAACAGTGGCTGTCTCAGAGGGCGAGGAGGGCAGGGAAGGAATGCCAAGTCCCCCAGAGTGTTCCAGTGGTGAGAAGCACACAGTGCCCACCTCCCTGCAGTCTGCAGATGCCCACAGCACCTCAGTTGCAGTGCATGTGGATACCAAGTGGTCACCACAAGCCAGCCGTGCTAGCCAGCCCCAACACTTCACTACGACGGAaaacctttcactccacattctatcagtaagggtaacttggttctttcgggtcccaaagcttgctcaggccaaacatagcaacaccatcccagtttccttatttctttcacagtccactttaaaccatcagcaaatcccatctgctccacctgcagggatgtccaaaatccaggccttttcagcatcaccaggcccaagccaccCAGAGCACTGGCCCCTCTGACTACCGCTCCCCACACTCCCACCTGGGCAGTCCCAGCCATGGGCCTGCAACACCCACGTTCCTGtggcctcactccctgtgcccagtcactcaggtcccgctgtgctcagggccctggcatttgcccttgcccacaaactctctgcagacgccccaaggctcctttactccatcggtctccactcaagtgtcacattctcagtgaagcacccctgaccCCAGCCCCATTGACACTCCAACCCCTGACCCGCTGCCTAATGCtgtctccccaaccagaactcactcctgaggaggggggcttgtgggtttcattctctgctctctacacattgtaaaacgtgtcaggcacataggcacggagctgcatttcctgaatgaaGCCAAGGAACACACCGCCCTCCCTGCATGCACTGTCTTTCCTAGGAAGCCCTGCCCCAAGAACAGGCTCCACAGTGGGGATGCAGCCCACGTCATCCCCTCGGGGAACCACACAAAACAAGGAAGGAGTTGTTTTCACCAGGAGCTTCTAAAACTCCCTGATGGAGAAGCCAGGGCGCCACCCAACTCCACCGCTCACCACAAAGCGCCCTTGCCTTAAGTAAGAGCCAACAGCACTTGTTCTATGACACAGAGGAGATGCAACTGCTCAAGCAAAGCTGTCTGCAGCTGGCCTTCACCGCATCCCCGGAGGCTCCAGGCAACAGGGGGGATCTCCACCTACTCTTGTCAAGGCCTGGCTACTCAAAGTGGCCGGCACCTTCCTTGTGTCCTGCACAGGGAACGCAGCCTGTGAAGCCTCACAATGACACCAGTTCTAAAATAGGAGCAAAACACACACAAGTTCTTCTCCAAACTGCCCATTTCTACAGCACCTCCCCGCATCATGTTTCCTCTGTTCACTGCCCCACTGCCCAGGAGAGCAGCCAACTAGTGCTTTTCCCATCACCCCCTGACCCTATTCTGCTATTCTCAGCTCCCAGTTGGCGGGACAGGCCAACACACCCACATCCGGCTAAGTCCGGGAGACTTGGCCAGACTTCTGGCTGCCCCAGGCCAGAAGGTACAAACGGCCCCTCGGACGTCTCTTAGGACACGTCAATACGGGGTGCTCAGAGAACACCATGGCCCCAAGGTCCCAGAGGAGGGCAGCAGTCTCAGCTTCTTCCAGAACTGCATGCTAACCAAGTATGTCGGGGCAGACAGAGGCTCCCAGAACCTTACCTCTCTTTGGTCAGGGTCTTTGCAGGGTGAAAAACTCGTATCAAACCCTGAGAAATGTCCCAGCCGCTAAGGAATTAAAGATCACACCAGGAGAGATTTGTCCAGGGGATCCAGGTTACTCAACTTGAGTAAGCAATAGTTAGGATCTTGGCATCCGTATGCGACAGGGAAGAAAGGGCAAGCGAGAGGTGGCCCCATGCACTGTGCTGTCACCATCTGGGTCAGAAAGGAGGGCCACTGGAAATAAAAGGTCTAttttttttttcttttttctgagacaaggtctcactgttgctcaggctggagtgcagtggcgccatctccgctcactgcagccttgatctcccaggctcaagacaacctcccaagtaactgggactacagacgtgcaacatcacgcctggggtgatttttttttttttttttttttttttttttgtagagacagggtctatgttgcctaggctggtctcaaactcctgggctcaagcgatcctcccaccttggcttttcaaagtgctaggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcacccACCCAAGGCCTTTCTGTTTCTGTCCTATTTAGGATGCAGCTCAAAGTGGCTGTTGGGACACCACAGAATCAGAATACGGAGGCTCCTATTGTTTCAAATGTAGCTGTCTTTGCTCCATCTAGGAGCACAGTGAGGCCTTATGACATGTGCTGTGGCTCCCAGCACCAGTTTAGGTACTTGGAGTGCAGCAGGGAAGAAAATAACTTGGCTGCTCTGCACGCTGGGGGCTTCACTCAGCGGCATCTAGACAGACACATAATTggccgggcgtggcggctcacgcctgtaatcccaaaacctgggaggccgaggcaggccgatcacttgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaatattaggccgggtgccgtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgagatgggcagatcacctgaggtcagaagtttgagaccagactgaccaacagggagaaaccccgtctctattaaaagtacaaaattagctgggcgtggtggtgcatgcctgtaatcccagctacttggaaggctgaggcaggaaaatcacttgaacctgggaggtagaggcggaggcggaggttgcactgagctgagatcgtgccattgcactccagcctgggcaacaaaagtgaaactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcaggtgcctgtaatcccagctacttggtaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacccaggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccattgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcaagaccctgtctcaaaaaaaaTTGAAATTAACGTTTAAAAAAAAAGACACCTAATTGTAATCAAATTGTATGGAGCATTAGAAACTGGAGAGAGTTATAGGGAAAGGAACAGGGGCTTGGAACACACCTCATGGAAAGCCAGGAACAAGTTCCAGCTATGGGTATGGAGAAATGAGGGCAGGAGGGTCACATGAAGGTTCTTCTAGTGACTTCCCAGCTTGGTCATCTCTGCTGCCCTCACCGTGTCAGCTGTCCTTGGAGCCGCAGTCATGTGGTCTGGTTTGTACACTGGCATGGGGCCCTCTCCTCTGGCAGAGACACGCCATGTTGGTTCCTCTAACTTCCACGTGGACTTTACTCCATTTTCCCAAGCATCAGCTCACCCACCTGCTGCTTTCTCCCTCAGAGCACTCTGCACTGAGGCTGGTGCTTCTTTATGAACTAACCCAGCTCCCTAGAGCGGTGACAAGTGCTGCCACCAGGAGTGCCCCAAAGGCCATGGCAGACCTGGGCAAATTCCCTGAACATGTCAGAGGGATGACTGCTCTGGAAAGGTGCCGGCCCAACCTCCAGCCTGTAAATCCCCCACAGTAAGAGGGTAAGCCAGGAGCTGCACTGAGGTCTGTTAACAAGGGGAAAGAGAAAGGTTTGTCACTGTTTTTAAGTCTGCAGCTTTAAGACAAGAGCCCTTAGCACAAGCAGGGTTTGGGCCCTGAAAGGTTTCCTGCCGAGCTTGCACTTCTATTTGCAAGGTGTTTAATGGTTTGGTCTGAAAACACTCTGGAGGAAAACACTGTCCTCCTCAAGACTTATCCAGCCCCTCACACAGCTCTGGGCCAGCCAAGAGGGCCCAGCCCAGTCTGTGACAGGAGATAGGTGCCCCAGCCAAAGCCCTGCATCCTGACAATGACTATGCAAAAGGGAATGGCTGGCTTCAAACACACTCTCGCCGTTCATCTCCAAGACAGAAATGTGCACAAGCTTAGTCTAGTCCCCTCAGCTTTTAGCATCTGAGAAAGCATCCATTCCTAACCTTAGAACTAGACAGGACCTGTGAAGCTATCCTGCAAACCTCTGCATCCTCTGGTCCCACGGATGGGCCTGGCTTCCTACCATAAGTAGTGGGATGCTGCATAACCCAAAAGATCTATGTGGGTTCCAAACAGCCTACCTTGAAATTTCAAACGAAAGTTTATATATAGGTGCATTTTTATGGAAATGGGTACTACAACTCAGGATATTCACAGAGGGTCCATGGGACCAACCCTGCTCTCGACAGTTTGCAGTGCAAGGCTCCGCACCAAGTACCACCTACCCAGCCAGACCCTGGACATCACTCCCCACCACAGGTCCTGTTAACTCGGAGAACCATTCAGCAAATCACTTCTTCACACTCCATGGAATCTACACTGCTGTTATTCCCACCCACACATTCCGTCGACCCCTAGCGGATGAGCTGTGCTCCTCCACAGGCTGAGTGTAGGGGCTGTGTTGCAGAAAGTGAAGAGACATCCCTGCCCTCCTGGGAGACACAATTCAATGGTCATATGAATGAGTGACATGCTGTCACTGAGGGCCACTGGGATCCACAGGGAGACACAAGTGCTAGGTATGGCACAAGTGTTGGGGTGGCCTCCTGAGCGATTCACATTCCCAGCCTATATTCACAGATGTTAGGTCCTGCAGGACAGGGCCACCAGGCTATTCAGCCACACCATAACCCTAGCTTTAATTAAAATAGCAACTGGGgaccggacgtggtggctcacgcctgtagtcctagcactttgggaggtcgaggttggcagatcacgaggtcaggagttcaagaccaggctggccaacatggtgaaactccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggcctggtggcaggcgccgtaatcccagctgctcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttaagcccgggagacggaggttgcagtgaactgagattgtgccattgcactccagcctgggtgacgaagcaagactccgtctcaaacaaacaaataaataaataaataaataaaATAGCAACTGGGggcagggcatggtggctcacgcctataatcccagcactttgggaggctaaggtgggtagattgcttgagtccaggaattcaagatcagccagggtaacatggcaaaatcccatttccacaaaaaaatacaaaaactattcaggcgtgggggcgggtgcctatagtcccagctactcgggaggccgagatggaaggatcacctgagcctgggagacagatgttgcagtgagccaagattgcgctccagcctggcaatagagtgagaccctgccttaaattaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGAACCAGGAACAATTCCTTTGAAAAATCCCACCCCAATCTCCAACCTCATTAATCTCACAGCTTCTGGTCTTTCAGTTCTGTTCTGAGATTCCCCCAGATCTGGCAGTCAGTCACCATCAGGAGAAAGGCGCTCTGTCCTAGGTCACCTGATCAGTAATGGAAACTCAGTCTCCTCCTCTCAGTGCAGAAGAGTGAGCAGCAGCAGACCAGACCCTTGAGGCCAACCATGGACCTGATGGGATGAGGACAGACGAGAGGCCACAGCCCAGAGGGGCTCCTGGGTGGCTGCAGAGCCATGCCAGTGCCAGACAAGGATGGGTACAGGGAGGGTACTACTGCCTGGACTCCTGCCAGAGAAACATAGCTGCCAGCATCCCTGGGGCAAGCTCCAGGACCCAAGACTGTTAGGGTGGGAGTTTGGATGGAGGAAATGTGATCCTGGGCACTAACAAACAGAATGCGTAGGTCAGGAAAGAATGCTACATGCTGAACAACAGCTTAGGAGCCTTTTTCAGCAAAACTCAGATTCCTGTCCTCCTTTAATATCCACTAGGTGGCGCTGGGTTGCCTCAAGTTCTGAGCTCCTCCGCAGCCTGCAGATCACACAACAGGCAGTCCAAGGTTTTGTCTCCTTTCAACTTTCCAGCACGATTCAAACCTAAGAAATCATAGTCCATTCTTCCTTTAGAAATATAAAGTCAACGagccgggcacggtgctcacgcctgtcatcccagcattttgggaggccgagccgggcggatctacaaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaatatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggcatggtgatgtgcacctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcagaagaatgcactccagcctgggCAACAGAAGGATATTCCATCTCaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaagaagaaaaagaaaTATAAAGTCAATGGTTTGGTTTTTATTTAAACAAAtttttaagagacagggtctcaccatgttgctggggctggagtacagtggctactcagacaccagcatagagcactacaagctcgaactcctgggctcaagtgatcccccaaccttggcctcgcctgtgagatgggactacaggagcacaccaccgcaccAGCTTGGTTTTTATTTTAATTCCAAGTTAGCCTGATTTTTGTTTGTAATCTAATCCGAGTTGAGGCATACACTCAGAATAAGGGAACAATGTCCAAGGAAGAGACTGGATACCAGGCAATTCAAAGCCAGAGGGTAGTAATTCTCTCAACACAGAGAAAACATTAGTGTGATAACAATGAATCAAAGACAGGGTCAGACTACATGACCACAAAGGTCCCATTCTGCAACACAGAAGGGGCCAGAAAACAAAGCAATCACCTGGCAAGGGCTGATGTTCTCTCACACCTGGGGAGGCTCAGTCCCCAGGGTCACCAAGAGACAAACAAATGCTAGTTGCAACTTATATCACAAAAGACAAATCACTCTCCCATGTTTAAGGACTTATATCTCCCGATAGAagaatgaacaagggatctgagcagcgagctcacagaaaagacaggtggttcaaacatgtgaagagatgcatcagtgcatcacaataaagctacacagagatcccattccccacttgttatactggttaagatccacaatttcacgagactcgatgttggcaaagctcgggggaagaggcatctcgtgtgttgctggtgggacagaggtacaaacccctgagaaggaaacacaacattacaaatgccattttccctattagtaatgcctttaggaatttatcttatagatacagaggcgcacatacaaaataacacaggtaaatggttagcactgGAAGGCTGGAACAAACTCAATGGTGGGGGCAGTTGCGGCTCACTAGGCAGCCaaaaaaagaattaaaaagtattttttaaattttatttattttttattttaCttttgttttttaatttttattattatttttgagatgacatctagttctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcgccatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcctagatttaagtgattcttctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggcatgcaccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagacagcgggtttcaccatgttagccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcgtgctccacccgcctcagcctggcaaagtgttgggatcacaggtgtgagccaccgcgcccggccttttttttttcatttttgatacgcggtctggctctgttgctggggccagagtacaatggtacaaccatggctcaccataatcttgatttcctaggcttaagtgaccctcccacctcagcctcctgagtagctgagactacacttgtgccaccacactcagatattttttaaaaattttttgtagaaatgcgatctcacattgttgttcaggctgatcttgcacttctgacctcaagaaatccgcccctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagtcaccacgcccggccTGCTTGTCCACATTTAATAAAGGTGATGCTCAGCCAATACAATCAGAACAACTGTGAGGTTTTCATGGTATCCTCAAGGCTTGCTGCCCTCACACAGTCAGTGTCGCAAACCCCAACTCTCTCAGACTGAGAGGAGACAGCTGGCCCCAGCCTCACCCACTGAGCCTCAATTTCCTCTTGAGTGACTGGAGTCAGTGACACCCACCTAGTGAAGGTGGCCCAGCACTTGGTGTTGCGTCATGCTCAGTAAAATGGCATTTTGCATCTGTTTGATTTAAAAACACTTTCGGACTCTCATGTATAACTTCGGGCTCGTTTTCTGTTTTAAGAGGAGTCTGGAGGTGGTGGTTCCAGCAGAGTGCATGCTACTCAGCAAAGGGGTTTAAAAAAGCAAAGGTACTCAGGggtttgtacctctgtcccaccagcaacacacgagatgcctcttcccccgagctttgccaacatcgagtctcgtgaaattgtggatcttaaccagtataacaggtggggaatgggatctctgtgtagctttattgtgatgcactgatgcatctcttcacatgtttgaaccacctgtcttttctgtgagctcactgctcagatcccttgttcattcttctattgggAAATATAAGTCCTTAAACATAGGAGAGTGATTTGTCTTTTGTGATGTAAGTTCCAGCAGAGTGCACCCTACTCAGCAAACCATTTAAAAAACAGCCACTggccgggcgcggtgctcacgccagtaatcccaacactttgggaggccgaggcgggtggatcacctgaagtcgggagaccaccctgaccaacatgcagaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacacaactagccgggtgtggtggcgcatgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatctcttaaacccaggaggcagaggttgctgtgagccgagatcgtgccgctgcactctagcctgggcaacaaaagcaaaactccatctcaaaaaaaagaaataaatagaaatagaaaTAAAAAATAAACAAAAAAAAACGGCCACCAAGGTCACTTCTTTCAAGAGCAGCCACATGACCATCCCTTCCCAGTCCTCTCCGGCCCTAACCTCAGGGAACCCTGATGCTCACACCCCAGGAGAACAGTGGTCAGTACCGGGGAGCCCTACCTGTTGACGCTGCTCCTCAGGCCCAGGCAGGCTGGCCCATAAGAAGGAGGTTAATAAGCACACCCACCTGTCTTACCTGTCATAAGCTTCCTTGAGGTCCCTGGCCAGCTTGCACTTGGGCAGGATGTGATGGAATGGGGACTGAGGACCTTCATTTCCTACAAGAATCACAACACAAGATTTACAGctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagccttccaagtagctgggattacaggcgcccgccaccatgtctggctaatttttttgtatttttggtagagacaggtattcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgtcctcaagtgatccatccaccttggcctcccaaactgctgggattataagcatgagccaccacgcctggccTAGACCTGCTAATTTTAAAATTTTTTGTctgggattacaggtgtgagctaccacatccagccAAaaagtcttttattcatcctttttcataaatttctaaaaatatatacatagacttaaaataaaatttctttttacttcctgtgataaagtcacagactctaaaaagataacgtttaaaaaaacaaaacttttggattgttattatcacaattataattagtatataattggccaaaacagaaacatattataaattttgacaggtaaccgggcgcggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggcggatcacaaggtcaggagatcaagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaaccccgtccctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcagaagaatggcgtgaacccaggagatggagcttgcagtgagcagagatcacaccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagaggaaaaaacaaaagaaaaactttatatatttgacaattacctgtcaaaatttattttatttttatttatttattttttttttgagacagggtctcactctgtcacccttgctggagtgcagtggtgcaatctcagctcaccccaacctccacctcccaaggctcaggtgattctcccacctcagcatcccgagtagctggaactacgggcacatatgaccatgcccggctaatttttgggtttttttcggtagaggcaggatttcaccatgttgcccacactgatcctgaattcccgagctcaagcaatctacctgcctcagcctccctaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcagccagccacaggtaaatttgtactgaaaatgcacctgagtcagagaggctgttcctttattattgttcattcatgtcaataactaattttacttattgctacaacaactaggtctgactttagttttgttcctaattctctcttttgttatagaggtgctggccaaagaaaatggagatggagagtttgttacaggtgtctctttatgttttgaaatctttacagtaggccaaaaaacactcaatgttctgtctgcaaaaattatttttaataattggttagttgataacccaattaggtcctccttcaatctggctgaaagcaaagaactggaaactgtccacctcacCAGCTGGATATTTCCAACGCCCTCTCCTGCCCCAGGGAGTAATAGTTTCTTCAACATCTCCAACAGGACCAGGGCTAGGCAGAGCTGCCTCACCTATGTGAACGGTGATCATGCAGCAGTGTGTGGGAAGAAAGAACATTTCTGGTCGGGAAATCTATTTCAACACATCCAGCCAGGAAAATTCATCTACAAATGTGCCCCTTGGGAGTCTTCCTGTGCCCCCCAGGCACAATCAGCCccgtgtgaagatcatgtaacttctctgagccttagtttccacatctgcaaaatggggatgatcatggacactgcctagcgaagctgttgtgaggactTCATTTTCAATGCACAGCTCACCAAAAGCCGATGCTTGCAAGCTCCTGACTGCTCTGCTGGTGTTGGGGTGGGTGAGGCCCCGCCAACATCTGTATCATTAACACTGAATGACAGCCCCTCCACAGAGGTCTGCGCTGCAGAGAGGCCACCAGCCAGCCCAGACCCATGCCCATCACGCCCTGCTGCACTCACCATCAGCCATGGCGGACACCTCATCCTGGAGCGCCAGGATCAGCTTGGCCTCCCGGGTGAGGTACTGGCAGCGGCGCTCCTCGTGCTGCAGCACGGTGGCGATACGACGGGACAGGTTATGCAGACAGTTTATCACTGACGGGTCTGCGTTGGCCTGCAGGAGAGAGACCATACACAGACTCAAACGTGTGCACAGGGACACAGCTGGACACAGTTTAAATGGAGCTAACACAGGTACACAGCAAAAACTCAAACCATGAAAGAAAGCGTCTCTACTCCTTTCCCCCAGGCTCCTTTGCAGAGGCCACTGCTGCTCATTTCCTGAGTCCCCTCCAGGGCCCATCCATAGACATGTGGGCTGTCAGCCCCCATGCTCTGTTCTTGGGAGTGGCTGCCTGAATAGTAACAGAGATGGCTCTGGAAATGCCTGGGTGCCCTAAGGAGGCACTGTTGTTCTTAAGGAAGAACAACAATGGTGCCTCCCTCACCAAGGACTGAATGGAAGAAATTAGCGAGCCATGTAACAAACTAAGAACAGAACCTGCCCTGAGCAAAGACCCTGCTAGTGTCTGTGGTCACCACTGTACTGCTGACTACTGGTAGGCAGAACCAGTCTACAATTTGTAAGAATTCAGTCACGACAGGCCACGTTACTACAGGGATGCACGGTACAAAAAGAGAGGCACCAGGCCAATTGTTCACTGAATACTTTTGGTCCTGAAGGATGAGAAGCTCTTCCCAGCAGAAGTCACACTGGTTAACAAGAAAACCAGCAGGCTCCAGGCCCATATCTCTGCCCAAGAGCTCCTTCTGCAACCATGATGACTGGGTCAAAGGACAGTGCAGGAGGCTCTCAGGAACAAGAGGGGCCCTCGACCCTCTGGAACCTATCAGGGACCACAGTCAGCCAGGCAAGCACATCTGCCCAAGCCAAGGGTGGAGGCATGCAGCTGTGGGGGTCTGTGAAAACACTTGAGGGAGCAGATAACTGGGCCAACCATGACTCAGTGCTTCTGGAGGCCAACAGGACTGCTGAGTCATCCTGTGGGGGTGGAGGTGGGACAAGGGAAAGGGGTGAATGGTACTGCTGATTACAACCTCTGGTGCTGCCTCCCCCTCCTGTTTATCTGAGAGGGAAGGCCATGCCCAAAGTGTTCACAGCCAGGCTTCAGGGGCAAAGCCTGACCCAGACAGTAAATACGTTCTTCATCTGGAGCTGAAGAAATTCTCTATATTCTCATCAGATCCCATGTTCACAAACAGAACTCACACCTGGATGGACTTACAACAAGGCAGCATCCCTTGCCAGAGAAAGGACTGTTGCTCCCATGCTGTGCCCACCACTGGGCAGCAGACCTGCTCCTCCATGTCAAGGGCATTGCCTCAACAGTGTCCTTGGGACCAGAGGGCTGACATATGGGGTGTATACAATTGCCTCAAAACAAAATACCCACCTAGAAGAAGAATCTGTGTACAAATACTTCCACGAGCAAAGCAAGGAGGAGGACAATGATCCTGGATATGTGATTATTCAGCTGAGGCACAACAGTGTCCATGAGTTGGATGTCCAGGGCCCATATGCTTGACCTTTCCAGACATACAAAGTGGTGCAGTCCCCAGTGACGCTCAGTGACCTGCACTCATGGGGTGTCCCAGCATGTCCGGTTTGCAAAGGCCTGACATGGAGTGAGGGACATGCTGAGAAAGCTAACACCTAGGGTGTGCCAGCACTAATGGGAACTTTTAGAAACACCATATTTTCACCATACACGACATAAAGTGGCAGGAAGTTTAAGGCATCACGCATGAGACTTTCTCATCCCCAAAACTTGTACCCAAATAGAACCAAGCCTTCAGAGTTAACTTGTAGTTTGAAGGAAACACAGGGACAGAGAGCAAGTCTGACTGCACAATGAGATTAATCCAAATGTGGAACATTTGATGgaacaaagggaggggagacctctggattggcagagacataaagacaccacatgcactagctgggctgggtttgcatcctggttcagacagtccagctgtgaaaaggctttagcaatcaggagaagcttcaatggaccaggtactaggtgatgccaacttattacagcaaattttttcagatgtacaaagggtatcatggccgaaaattaagtgcccatattttatacagatatcttctgaagtatgtagggatgaacagacataaggtctgggacttgccttgaaatagagagagggaaggaaatatatggagccaGGGTTTAAAGGCACCTGAGACAGGCATATAAGGTTTGTCAGTCTGCTCTCTCTATTTCAGGGTTTAAAATTTTTCAGAGTAAAAAAAAAAAAGTGTAtttctttttttttttaagatagggtctcactctcttgcccaagctggagtgcagcagatgatcactgctcactgccaccttgaccttccaggctcaggtgatcctcccacctcagcctcccaggtagctgggactacaggcgcacatcatcatgcctggctaatttttgtattttttgtagagatggggtttcgctatgttgcccaggctggtgtcaaactcctgggctcaagtgatccacccaccttggcctcccgaagtgctaggaatacaggagtgagccactgtgcctggACAAAAGTGtatattttaaaaagaaagaatatatatttaaaatgacaaaagtgtatattttaaaaagaaagaatatatatttaaaatgacaaaagtatatattttaaaaaGAAAGACTTGTCCACCCAAAAAATACAAACTCTTTACATTATCAAAATTTCTCCTACTCGTCAATATCACGGCCAGCTGAAGTCCTAGACTATCttgtttcctgttgcttttttttttttgagctggagtttcgctcttgttgcccagattggagtgcaatggtgcgatctctgctcactgcaacctccgcctcccggattcaaccgattctactgcctcagcctcctgagtagctggaattacaggtgtccaccaccacacctggctaattttgtattttttagtagagacggggtatctccatgctggtcagcctgctctcaaactcctgatctcaggtgatccgcccgcttcagcctcccaaagtgctggtattacaggcgtaagcatttgtgctcggctCCGGTTGCTTTTACCTGTCCGTAATCAATCTATACTTCTCCAGGTTCTGGTCTGATCTCCATTTCTCACCCTTGATGGCAAGAGGATGGGCCAGTGTATAATAATCaccacattgtttaatcactccccaactactacacactatgattatctccagtttaattattgttataaaaatctttattcttgctgagaacaagcctgggggaaatctttacgcagttgtaaaagttgcttgtttttcttgataatactcctaacagtgggactgctagatctaagggcatCATATGCTATGCTGTCAAACACTACTCCCCGAGGTGAGGGCCTGCCTACAGCATCCTGGAAACACTATTCCCCGAGGTGAGGGCCTGCTTACAGCATCCTGCAAACACTGTTCCCCGAGGTGAGGGCCTGCCTACAGCATCCTGGGTGGGGCTGTGGCTGCGTTTCATCAACTGTCCCACAGGGGTTATCGGTGTTGACAGGTGGACAACATTCGTCATGGATTTTGTTTACTCCTTTGCTTGTTTTTTTACTTAATTCATTTTTCTTTGTGGCGCTTTATATTATGTAATTATGTAAGAAATACAAAGATGCTATGAAAATGCAAATACTACAAAAGTGTATCAAGCAGAAAGTGAAGAACTTCTCCCAGAACCCTGTACCCCAGGAGCCATTAACAAATCATTTTGTTTTAATTTGTAGTTCCTTATTTATCAACAAGGCAGGCCTGTCTTAAAAATTAAGCTCCagctgggcatagtggctcacacctggaatcccagcactttgggtggccaaggagggaagaccatttgagaccaggagttcaagatcagccagggcaataaggtgaaaactcatctctacaaaaaatacaaaaattagcaggggcagggcacagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcagtctgggaggccaaggtgggtggatcacctaaggtcacgagttcaagaccagcatggccaacatggcgagaccccccccccccaccgatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcgcacacctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagactcacttgagcttgggaggcaggggttgcattgagccaagattgcgctactacactccagcctgggtgacacagcgagattctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaagagaataactgctaatgggtatggggtttccttctggggtggtgaaagtgttctggatctagatagtggtgatggttatacaacatgaatgtaccagatgccactgaagcatagacttcaaaatgacaaatagtgttatgtgtattttaccAAAACAAAAAGGGGTAAACAATGAAGTGCAGTCTGCCTGCACCCCAGGAGGGGCCAGCCCGCTGCAGTCCAAGCTCCGAGTCAATGACACGCTCGTTGGAAAAAAAGAGCTGCTTCTCCACTGGCCCCACTCCCTGATCTTAACCATTTATATAAACACTCACCCTCAGTGCAAACACCACATTAAAAAGAATCATAGTAGGTGCTTCCCTCTTCGGGGAAGGATCTGTTTTGGAGATCTGTAAAAGATGCATAATTCTAATTAATTGAGACGACTTTCTAAGGAAAGCTGTTTAGAGCTATTCTACTTCAGGCATGGCAAAAGTCCCCAGAATACAGCACCAAGGTCTTGGAAAAGCAATGAATGCCTTTGCTCTGGAGGCGTGCCTACTGCATGGGCAAAGTCACAACTATGACAAGAGTGGGAAGGTCAGTGCTCTGACCCCCTCGCCCCCCCGCTAACAGAAGTGAGCTGACAATGCCCACAGGGGACGAGATGGAGAGGGGCATAAATGGGTGGAGGACCCAGACCCACACCCCCACTGCCTTCCCGTGCCCGCCTGCATCCACCAGGCTGTATCTGCTAAGTATGACGCATACTCAGAACAATTGAGGGACAGGACGATGTTCAGGGACAGCCAAGCCCTGAGCAGGGCCCAGGTGAGGCAGGCCAGCAAGTCCTAATTTCTGTGCTCCCGGTTCTGGCATCCAGCCAGCTTCACAAGGACCAGGGCGCTCAAGGGAAGCATTCCAAGGGGCACGGGGGAACTCTTCAAAGCCAACTACAAGTTCTGCCACCAGGGGGAGTTGGGGCCCCAGGCTGCCCTGGCACCCATCCCCTACCCCTGACTGCCACTCCTGTCTACAGGGTGTGACCGCGGGCAGGCTGCCAACTCTCCCCTTCATTGCCTACAGGTAGGGGACTGTGCCCCAGCTGTGGAGGCTGTGATGAGAAGGGAGGGTGCGGTACAGGGGACCAGGCTCATCAACCGCCTCAGAAACTCCTTCCATGGAGGTTCACGAATAACACCACAGAACCTCCCAGAATTGCTGGATCTGTATAAATGTAGCTAAATCCTACGTTACTGTGTTCGACCCTTCAGAATCTTAGTAATGCCATCACTGATCCTGCCTGTATGCAGAGAGCTGACTGGCAGGCTCTGGTGTACAAGTTCCCTTCATCCTGCTAACAAGATGAGTTCCTCAGTGCTATGACACCTATTCATCAAGAGAACATATAGAGAGGGTTTAGCAGAAAAATAAGTGCTAAATAATACTAATATTAGCTACTAGAGTGTCTTGTAATAAATAAGAGGAAATGCTTGCACCACACTGTAGAAAATTCAAGGGTTTCACGATGCTAGTTAACTCACTATCTTGGCCTCCCCTGGAAACAGACATCCTACATATGAAGGGGAGGGCCACAGTCAGTAGAGACCTAGAATGCAGACTGTAAAAGCTAGGGACAGGGACTGAAGCACCTGTCTTCAGGGGCAAGAACACCTGTCTCTTTTTCTACTGGACTCTCTGGGTTTATGAAGATGCACAGTTCATACCAAGTGTCTAATCAGGTCTCCTGCCCAGTACCTTCACCAGAGCTGGTGTCAGCCTCAGTTCTGAGCCCCCCAGAGCCAGAATGGACCAGGCCTGCCGGCCCAGGGAGAGCCACATCTGCCCAGAGGGTCTGTGCATGCCCAGGGAGAACCCCACCTGCCCAAGGACAGACGCATCTGCCCAGGGGAAGCCACACCTGCCCAGGGGGAGCCACACCTTCCCAGAGGGTCTGTACCTGCCCAGGGGAAGCCACATCTGCCCAGGGGAAGCCAAATCTACCCAGGGGGAGCCCCACCTGCCCAAGGAGAGCCACACCTGCCCAGGGGAAGCCACACCTGCCCAAGGAGAGCCACACCTGCCCAAGGAGAGCCACACCTGCCCAAGGAGAGCCACATCTGCCCAGGGAGAGCCCCACCTGCCCAGGGAGAGCCATACCTGCCCCAGAGCATGCTGTAGCAGTGTTGGGTGCCCAACAAATCGCACATTATCAATCTTCAGTTCAAATTTTTGGCCACACATTTCAGACTTGGTTGCCAAAATTGTTGCCAGAATAACATCTGAAAACCTTAAAATTTAAGAGAGGTAGAATAAAAATAAGTTAACAAAATACCACAGCACCATGCCCTGCTGGCCCCAGAGCGGAAGGGTCTCAGTAAACTGCACCTTCATGGAGTTGCTCTGCCCCGACTGCTGGTGGAAGCTACTAACAGTTGCCCTTCTGTAGCAATCCCAGAGGTTATGGATGTAAGATCACCAGAATTACAAGGTAAAAGGCATGAGAAGCACAGACTGAAGGCACATGCTGTCATTTTTTGGCATGCTCTATTAAATTCAGGAGAGAAACAGTTGCAGTTTGCTTTCAAAGGGAGGATCAGCTGGAGCCGGCACTGCCCTGCGGAGCTGCTCTTTAAAGTTCACAGGCAGAGGGGCCTCTCCCAGTTACACTCAGGTTTGCTGTGCTGCACCTTCAACTCCCAGGACCCAGGCCCTTCACCCACAGAGCGGCCCTTCACCCAAAGAGCCGCGTGGAGGGCAAGGGGACAGTGCACAGGGATGCGTGCAGAGCGCTGACTTCCTTCCTCATAGCATGGCTGCCCATCCGTTCCCTTATCCCAAACACTTAAACTTTCCGGTTTTTATCAGGGAAGAAGCTTTGTGCAAGATGTGCAAGCCCACTGTGATCACAGCTATTTCCAAATGGCAGAAATACCAGGTTGCACACAACTGGGTGCCACGGAGAAGTGGGTGCAGCTGTGGTGTGGGAGGGAGGGCATCCCTTTTCCCCTTTTCAAGGTCATCTGTGCCCTTCTGTCTCCTTACTGGCAATGCTGATGCCTCCTGCCTGGGGAGATCTGGATAAGGGAGTGTCACCTGCAGGGGTGCTGTGGGTGGTGCTGACTCTTATCTCAGAGTCCAGGGCTCTGAGGGCCTCCGCTCTAGAAACACAAATGTACTACCTCTGATCTGGACCCAGAAGAGAGAGAAGTCCCATACATATCTCTCCACCCAGGAAAAATATATCTAATATCTAGGTCAGGAGGGTGCACTCTCTTGGGGAAGCTCTAGCCTCCGCAGGGCCATACTCTGCCCCTGGGCAGGGAGACCCCTAAGGTCCTAGAAGAGACCACTGAGGACAGACATTCTAGGGTGCAAACCTGGTCATGCTTCTTCCCCAGAGGCCCTCTTGGTGAAGGGATGGGAGAGACTGACATAACTCCTCCATGTTGTGATGAAAAAGGAAGGCCTGCTTTGAACTGCACTGTAGCTCAGCTCTGTAATAGCAAATGGCAAGTAGCTACATGATTCTTTCCAAGTCTATCATGGGCTGTGGGGCTCAGACTGTTTTCCAGCCTTCCTCCTGAACTGGCACGACCCTCTAACCATCCGAAGTCACCCTAGGCTCACAAACAAACCACATACGAGGGTTTGGTCAAACCTATTTGTGCCATTTGGAAATAGCCTCTCAACCCAGTCAGGTTGCAGTTGGACCTTCTGAAATCAATCTTGTTAGAGTTATCCTGGGAAACGCAGGACCCACAGCCAAGTCCTCAGCAGCCCACTGCAGGTCTCTCCTGCAGAGATGGAGGATTCAAGTGCCTTACACCACAGGCATAATATGCTTTCTTCAAAAACCCTAAATGGCTCACTCTGTTCTATAACTCCCATCTGTGGGACATGGTAATGTTGAAGGAGGGTTTGAGGTATTAAAACGCCACCAAACACTTCTGCTCTAGCAACTGACCCAGGGCCAACGCCTCACATCCTATCTAAACAGTGCCCCTCCACTCTGCCACCCAGTGACTCAGGGGACACAGAGGTAACAGAAAAATAACCACCACCACTCCAGAAAGGTCCCTTGCTCTGACAGCCCAAAATCTCCACTAAAAACTGCTGCTCTGTCATAAAGAGTCACAGCCATGTCTCAGCCTCAGCCCTCAGGCACCAGTCCAGGGACCAAATTTAGTTTGGCTGTGAGATGGTCCCTGGGATTCTCAGAGGCAAGCAGTGGTAGCCCAGTTCGCGTTTATAAATACCTAAACTTCAAGGCGCCCTCACAACAGCCAAATAAAAGGCTCTTTCCCTGCTAGAGGCCAGGGTCTGCAGAGACGGCCAACTGGAAATCTGTGAGCTGAAGTAAAAAGGCACACTGggccaggcgtggtggctcacacctgtcatcccagcactttgggaggctgaagtgggtggatcacccgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcatggccaacataatgaaacccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccgggcgcagtgaagcctgtagtcccagctagtcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacctgggcggcagaggttgcagtgagcggagatcgtgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcgaaactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaCAGTCACATTGACTTAGTGGCTGTTCATGGAGCCCTCTGAGGCAGCCAGCAGGGTGGTAGTTAGCCATTGTTTATCTGAGCAAATCTGGCCCACAGAGAAATCTACTCCCCACACCTTAATATTACAAACATATAATGACAAAACGCttttttttctttttgagacgaagtcttgctcttgtcccccaggctggagtgcaatgacgtaatctcggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccgagttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgcgattagaggcacccgccaccacgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggtcaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggatgacaggcgtgagccaccacgcccggccCCATGACAAAACAATTGAGCGGCtttttcttttcccccttgagatggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgtaatggcgcaatctcggctcactgaaacctccgcctcttgggttcaagcgattctactgcctcagcctcccaaatatctgggattacaggcgcgtgccaccaagcccggctaatttttcatattttttagtagagacaaggtttcaccacgttggccaggctggtctcgacctcctgacctcatgatctgcccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggatgacaggcatgagccactgcacccATCTGGCTTTATACTTTATATAGTCTGTCTGGTAATGTAATACACATAAAGACAGAGTTATATTCATGAGATTGGGGGTGGGGCAAAACTTATAAACAGCAAACTGAACCATAAACAAGTGTTGTTTTGTTTTATTGGCTTCCAACATTTATGAAAATCCTTTTCCCTCATTTTGATGGTGAAAGGCCTAATAAATGTACTGCAGCACAATAAAACATCTGTTACAAAAACTGAAGATTCCTGGAATAACTTGGAAATTCAAGAAAAACACATTTAGGAAGATGAACCAGCCCAGCCAGAAAACAGGCCAGGACCTTCTATCACTGCCGAGCTATTCTGGAGTAGGGTTTGCTCTCTAGCTTGGACAAAAAAAGGGATGGAAAGACATCCTGGAAGGGAGCTCAGTTCTGCTCCCCCCACCCACCTAAAGGGATGGAAAGACATCCTGGAGGGGAGCTCAACTCTGCTCGCCCCACCCACCTCCTTGCTGGAAGCTCACAGACACTGTGTGTACCTCCAAGGCCCAGAGGAGATGCACTGTCAAGGGGAATGGAAGAGTCGCCCGTCATCCGTGCCCTCCTGGACAAGCACCATATCAATTCCATGAGAACATTTCTGCCTCTATTAAGCACACTCAATAGCATCTAGGCCTGAGCATCACACTTAATGCCCAACCCTTGGGAGAGGCCCCCACAAAACCCCTCAAAAAATAAAAACAAGGAGCAACAGTCACAGGTCTCTCTAGGGCGGCAGTGGACTAGGGAGATGACAGAGTCCACTCCTGCTTGCCCGCCACCCTCACAGGACTACTTGTGCCTACCTGGAGGAAGAGGAGGTTTGTGTGACATGCCTGGTCCCAGAAGTCTCCCGGGTGCCAGCCAGCCATGCCTTGGCCTCTCAGGTAATGTGAAATAGCTAAATGACTGGGTAGAGAAAAAGCCGGGGTGGTGGGAAGTCTGGGCATTCATGGGGGAACTGGGGCAGTGAGGTCCACGCCTGTGTGCCTCATCAGTCACTCTTCAACATGGAGGGAAATCAGGAATTAAGCACAATTACAAGAAGAGAAGGCAGCCGGAATCAAGACAGAAAGACGGTGGAGAGGTCTCGGTCTTACCCTGCAACCAATTGCTCATCGGTTGGAGGACATGGCTCGCTGAAATGGGAACAGGACCATCAAGACCAAACAAAAACATATCACTTTTTTAAAAACCATGAAAAGTTACAAGGCTATTTTATAAAAACTGCACAAAAGTCTAGCAGAAGTGCCACCATTAAGCATTAACTGTTGACCATCACGACTAAGCAACTTACCAGACAAGAAACAGGATCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGGTCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGGTCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGATCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGATCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAAGAGGGTCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGGTCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGGTCACACACTCCCCACGTTGAGAAACAGGATCACACACTCCCCACCGCTGAGAAACAGGATCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGGTCACACCCTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGATCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGATCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGATCACACACTCCCAACATGTGAGAAACAGGGTCACACACTCCCCACGCTGAGAAACAGGGTCACACGCTCCCCACGCTCAACGCTTACCATGGGGTTTTCTCACTAAAAGTCAAATTCTCACACAGAAGTACAGGCTGGGCAGGAACAAAAGTCATTTTTCAGAAGTAAGCACAAGGCTGGCAGAGCTGGGTCAGACCCAGCACCATATGTATTAGCCGGATGCCTGTGCAGAAGTATCTCATCTTTTCTTTTCTTTTTTTTTTTCCTTttttcttttttttcttcaaaagagacagggtctcacaatgctactcaagctggtctcatactcctggggtcaagcaatcctcctgcctcggcctcccaaagtactgggattacaggcgtgagccactgcacccagccTAAAACTAATCTTTGTGGTAAAAGTTTTCTCATCTGCATGACAAGAAATCGCCTACCGAGGATCACATAAGACTCCCAGAGGCAAAAGCCTTCTGAAAACTATAGCGTGTCATATGAATTTCACCAGCTCCAATTCTTGAGATACTGTGACTGCCAGCACACCTGACTTCCCTAAGCCTCTGCCTGGAGCAATAAAGTGGTCATGGTGGATCCATATATATTTGTCAGAAAACATCTGGGCTTTTGCACTACCTGAGTTGAGATTTTTAGAAACAGTTTAGGAGTTTACTTTCTggctaggcacgatggctcacgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggtggatcgcttgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggcgaaaccctgtctctacttaaaaagaaaaaattagctcaccttggtggtggatgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaaccctagaggtgaggttgcagcaagccgagatcacaccactgcactccagccttgggcgacagagtgaaactttgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCCTTTATTTTCCTCTGCAGATATTTGAGTTCTGGGACACACTGCTTTCCATGTATTCTGGAAAGAGAAAGGAGACCTGAATCCAGGAGTGGAAACATTGTGGGAGCTCTGCCAAAGATCCACAGAAGGGATCTCTTTCCTCAGCAGCTGCCAAGCTCCTCAGGTTGTACAGTATGAAAGCATTAAGATGTTTCATGGATTTTCCCAAGATCACCCAAGAAGTCAGAATCCTCGAAGCTGAAGCCTGACTGTAAGCTCTGCCTCCTACAACTAGACAAGTCACAATGCAACCCCTTTGCTCCAGAGgaaaaggagtaagcacagagggcttctgagtccggcaatgctccatttcctgacAGGAGCATTTTACAGACTTGCGTCTGCCCCTCTGAGGGAGGCAGGGCCATCAGCTAACACTCAGAGACAAGGATGGTCCTACAACATCCTGATCTGGGAGGAAGAGGTGAAGGCAACTCACCACCCTCAGGCATCTTAACAGAAAACAGTggaactaaggctcattctaaagaatgtgcccaagatcacacaccgaaggctgcaaagcgagagtcaaacttggaaccctgaacctgcacttgtccctttacactgcCCTGCAGCATGGATGCGATGGCTGGGCAGAGGGAAGTGCCCAAGCCTGGGGACAAAAATGCCTACCTGCTTTCTTGTGTGTCAACCTCAGCTACAGAAAGGAGAGGGCATCTTTCTAACACATCAGTGTAGGGCTCTAAAAACACAAGCTAATAGAGGCAAACCTAACAAGAGAGGCCCTGGCAGAGCCTCATGTGTGCCTGGTGGGAGGACCTGTATGTTGTGAGCTAGAGAGTGCCTGCCTGGCCAAGGACCCCATCTGGCCTAGGCCCAAGTGCAGCCACAAGTTGGGTACACTGCTACAAAAGTGGCCAAGCCTGAGGACAGTAGCAGTGCCACCTGATTCCCCAAGATGTCACCTGAGAATTAAAGGCAGAGCTGGTagctgggtgagggggctcatgcgtgtaatcccagaacattgggaggccaaggtgggaggatcacttaagcccaggagttcaatcacctgaggtcagggttctccatgttgaccaagctgagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggagaaaccctctgttaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattaggccgggtgcagtggttcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacctgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagattgcgccattgcaccccagcctgggcaacaagaatgaaactacgtctcaaaataataataataataataataattaataataataataataataTGATTTCAGAGCATTTTGAAAATGAAAGAAATCAGTTCTTCTCTAAACCTCTAGCTCCCCATTCTCTGAGGTAGTGGCCTAAGCACTGCTCGCAGTTTCAAAGAAGGGAGCAGGAAGACGGTGTCCACACAGAGAGGGACATGCCCACACCAGCCTTTCTGAGGGACACCAGGCTATCTCTCAGACCTGGCTTGATGGCTTCTGCCCCTACCAGTGGTGGGGACACACGGTACATTTAAACATGAGCACCATGGCCCCTAATACCCAGGGAACACTACATCTTTTCTGACCTTGGTTTCAAGTCTTAGAGACACTGGACAATATCCATTTTCTTTTCTCATAATTGAATTATAGAAAAGGATTATAAAAAATAAGTAAGAGTTAATCTCTATAACCTGAATCATATCTTAAAttgtttctgagaggggggtctcactctgtcacccaagttggagtgcagcaatgtgatcttggcttgtggcaatctctgcctcccaggctcaagcaatcctctcacctcagcctcctgagtagcagagaccacaggcgtgtgccaccatgccaggctaattttttgtatttttggtagagacaggacttcgtcatattacccatgctggtctcgaactccggagctcaagcgatctgcctacctcagtctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgggccaatgcgcccagccCTGAACCATATCTTGATGATGCACCTCAAAAAACTAGCCCCCTCTCTAAGAcagcactgtccaatttttttttttttttttttttttttgagacagggtctcactctgtcactcaaggctcaggctggagtacagcggcatgatctcggctcactgcaagctccatgtcctgggctccctcagcctccgcagtggctgggactaagggcgcaggtcaccaacccagctaatttttgtattttttgtagagatggggtttcgtcatgctgtccagactgttctcaaacatctggcctcaagtgatccccccgccttggacacccaaagtggtgggattacaggcatgagctaccgctcccggccccaaaagaactttctactgtgatgggaatattccaaatctgaaccatttaatatggtagacactatttccatatagacattgagcacctgaaatgtgaccagtgcaactgagcaagtgaattttttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcactctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatcttggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgccaccatgcccggataactttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatgagtctcgatctcctgacctcatgatccgcccgccttggcctcccaaagggctgggattacaggcttgagccactgcgcccggccgcaagtgaattttttatttcagttaatttccatcttcttctttttttttttttttgagacagactctcgttctgttgcccaaactggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcagctcactgcaacctccgcctcccaagttcaagtgattctcctgccttagcctccggagtagctaggattacaggcatgtgctcccatgcccgacaaatttttgtatttttagtagaggtagggttttgccatgttggccaggctgtctcctgacctcaggtgatccatctgcctgggactcccaaagtgcttggattacaggcataagccacgacatctggcctatttcagttaacttcaatttaaatggccacactggccagtgtttgtaatagtgagcagcacggCTGTGTCCTCACTTTTCTAAGGCAGGCCACGACCACTCACAAGTCACTGTGTAGCCTGTTAATACTGTTTCAGTCTGGTAAACTGAAGCTCTGGTTTCAGAAAGAAAAGCACTTTTGGGAACAACAGTCAAAGACACGggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggctggtggatcacaaggtcaggagatcgagaccgtcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatagaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcagtcgcctgtagtcccagctactccggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacccgggaggcggagcctgcagtgagctgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaTCAAAGACACAGAGAGTGGATTTGATGCACTTTCACTGCCTTGCTCCAGGAACATGCTCTGAGCTATGACAAGGCAGAGCAGGGGCTTGCGGGCCTACGTGACAAAATAAACCAGGAGGGGAACTGAGCCCCTAAGGGTATGAACCCTGTATCTGGAAAACATGGGTGGCACCAGTGAGATTTACAGATATATGATGTGCTAAAATTACTGAATGAAGCAATTCTTCAATAAAAGATTCTAGAGAGAAGCATGCCCCTCCCACAGTTTTACCTCTTCATTACGTTAAATATTAAATTAATTCCCTAGAAAATATCCTCATGGTCATGTCATTATAAGTCTGAAAATTAACTGCAGGAATTAGGTACTGCCAGCCTTCCTTCTGAGTCTTCAGCAGCCTGGGCCTCACATCCACTGCAGCTTGGAGTAAGGCTAATGTGGGGGGTGGCCAGCAGCCAGCCCTGCTCTAAGCTGATCTGTGGCACAGGTGGAGGGAGAACAGGAAATACCTACCCACTGTGCAGGGGCAAAAGCATTCTATATGCCTGTGACAAACCAGAGTTTGTTCCACCACCACATTTAAAGGGCAAGACAACCACAGGCCTCTACATCAAAATGACGGTCCAATGGGGTGTCCAGCAAGCCCCATCGCCCTTCCAAAGCCCACTCCACTCAGAGACAGTCATCAGTCATGCCAGAGGCCCCAACATCCTCCCAAATGATGATAAAAATCACACTCTTGGAACCACAAATTGTGgtcaggcatggtggcttatgtacgtaatcccaaaaatttgggaggccaaggaaggaaaatcacttgaggccaggagctcaggaccagcctgggcaacaaagcaagaccccatctctacaatcaatcaataaaatttTTTTAAAAAGACTTGCAAATTGCCATGGCAGGTGTGGTGCTGCCTTGTCAGAGAACTGCAGAGAAACAGCACTACCTCACTGCACAGCAAAGGCCCAGCATAGGGATCTTAGCTATTTTTTCCCGGGACAGTGGAAGCCAAGTCCTTTACTCCACACAGGCCTTGTCTGTGTTTAAGGGAACCCAGGGCAGGTAACTCACAATCTTCCCTCCCTCACCTGGGCCTATGTTACCATTTACTATGCTTCAAAATGAACAGAAGGCAGAAGTGGTCATTTCTAAAGTTTCTACCCTGGTAGTGCCTCCCAGAGAGAGCAGGGGCACAAACACAGGAAGGAACCGGATCCACCTTTCATCTGTGCCTAAAAGAACATCAAAGAACATCAAGGTTCACACCATCCCAGCTCTAAGCCCCACTGCCCATATCACCACCTGAGCCTGGACACCAAGAAGGGACTTGACCAGGCTGTGCTAAACCCAAGCACCTGCATTTGACCTCTGGGTACATGCTCAAGGAATTAGATCCAAAGACAACAACATAGGGGTCTGCTTTCCTCTATGTTTCTTTCATAGGAGATAAACATCTCACGTGGACATGGCCTCATCTGTGCTCTGACCTGCTTCACCCACCAGACAAGCCTGAAGCTGGAACAGGTGCCCAAATTATTCAGCAAGCCCCAGACTGTCTACGCAGTCCTCCACTCTACACTACCTGAGAGCACCCACTAAACGGAAAAAAACAAACACCAGACTTCTCAGGGAGAAAACATCTGGGTGAATAGGAGGGTGGGGCTTTGCCCAGGCCTGGGACCAGGACACGCCCCGCCCTGAAGTGGCCGCAGAGCCTTTACCTGGAATCGCCGTCCTGCTCATCAGCATGGTCGCCCGTGTTGCTGGCAGCGTATCTGCTACGCGGCTTACCTGAGTCGGGGCGAAAAGAGGGGAAGGGCTAAGAAAACAGGGTCCTTCCACACACAGGAGGGTTATGGAACCGTTAACAGCCATGTTTTCcaaaacatgctctgtccataccatggaatattactcagacataaaaaggaatgaacatgggtgaaccttgacaacatcatgctgaataagccagagacaaaagaacaaatggtgcacttacagtatatgaaatgtctagaacaggcaaatgcatcaagacagaaagtagattagaggttagcacaggctgggagcaggggaaatgaagagttattggtcagtggttacagagtttcagtttacgtgctgaaaaagctttagaaacagatagcggtaatggctgcacactataatgaatgtaattaatgccacttaattatacacttacaaatcattaaaatgacaaatcttatgttatCTTCAAAAACAGTGATAAggcacggtggcccgtgcctgtaatcccaaccctttaggaggccaaggtgggtggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcgaaaccagcctggccaacatggcgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccgggcatggctgagcgcggtggttcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggtggatcacgaaatcaggagatcaagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggtgggtgcctgtagtcccagctactctggagggtgaggcaagagaatggtgtgaacccgggaagcagagcttgcagtgagccaagatcgcgccactgtactccagcctgggagacacggcaagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccgggcatggtggtgggcacctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggatgaggattgtgctactgcacttgagcctgggtgacagagtgagactcagtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCgctaacaatcagctcagccttcagcaaaacaatcgttttgctggagaaaggtattgcctcaatgttgatggctgttgactgattagagtggtacttgctgaaggctggggtgctgtagcaatttcttaaaataagacaacaatgacctctgctacatctatcaatttactcttcctttcatgaaagatttctctgtcgtacgggacgttgacagcactttatccaccacagaacttctttcagaattggaagcaatgctctcaaactgtaccactgctttatcaactaagtttatataatattcgaaatctctgttgtcattttaacaatgtttacaacatctttaccaggaatacattccatttccagaagctactttctttctttctttttttttttttttgagacagggtatcactctgtcatccagactggagtgcggtggtgtgatcaccgttcactacagtcttgacctcccaaggctcaggtgatcctcctacctcagtcccctgagtagctgggactacaggcatatgacacccatgtccggctagtttttgtatttttaatagagatgaatttttgtcatgttgcacaggttggtctcgaactcccgggctcaagtgatccacctgcctcagcctcccaagtgttgggattacaggcgtgagtcaccacactcagcccagaaactgctttctttgcccatccataacaatcaagtcctcatccgttcaagttttatcgtgagactgcagcatttcagtcacatctttaggccctacttctaattctagatctcttgctatttccaccatatctgcagttacttcctccactgaagtttcgactccttcaaagtcatccatgagagctggaatcaactttttccaaactcctgttactgttgatattttgacatgatcaccaatgttcttaatggcatctataatggcacatgctttccagaaggttttcaatttattttgccctgatctgtccaaggaatcactatctatggcagctatagccttacaaattgtatttctttttttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgggatctcggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccggattcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgccactatgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagacatggggtttcactgtgttagccaggatggtcttgatctcctgacctcgtgatccgcccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctaggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcacccggcccaccttgcacttttacgttatagagatggtttctttccttaaatctcatgaactaacttctgctagcttccaacttttcttctgcagcttccttacctctctcagccttctcagaattaaagagagttagagcctttttctggattaggctttggtttaagagaatattgtggctggcctgatctatccagaccactaaaactttccataccagcaacaaacaaagctatttacctttttatcatgcattcactgttctgttttgctttgttttgagacagagtctccctcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatgtcggatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggctcaagcaattctcccgtctcagcctcccgagtagctggggattacaggcatgggccaacacgcccagctaatttttgtatttttttttttagcagagatggggtttcaccatgttgtccaggctggtctcgaacttctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcttcccaaagtgctaggattacaggcatgagccactgtgcctagcGttgtttgtttgtttgtttgtttTAagagtcagggtctccctatgttgcccaggctagatttaaactcctgggctcaagcaattttcctgcctacagttcccaggtagctgggagtacaggtgcaggcctggcttggagtaacacttcccatttccttcaagagcttttcctttgcatttaccatttggctgttttgtgcaagcagactagcttttggcctagttcagctttcaacatgccttcctcaagaagcctaatcatttctagcttttgatttaatgtgagaaacatgtgattctttatttcacttgaacccttagaggccactgtagataaccagcttaatttcaatattgttgtgtctaagggaacagggtggtccaaggagatggaaacagatgggcgaacagccagaatacacacaattattgatgaaacttgctatcttatgtggacatggttcttggtaccccaaaacaatcacaatagtaacataaagatcatgtatcaccgtaacagatacaataataatgaaaaagtttgaaatactgcaagaattaccaaaacaccacccagagacacaaagtgagtatatactgttggaaaaatggtgctgacagacttgctggacacaggtttgccatgaactttcaatttgtagaaaacacaataAAGTGAGGTAGGCCCCTATGCACATGTACACACACACACACACCCCCTCACAGTGTGGGATGACAATTAGGTTGGAAAAAGCATAGGCAAAATAAAAAAAATTTAAATGTACATACACCAAGAGCCTTCATATACACaaacaataatactttcccggagtaaaaaaatttaaaaacctagtgatgaatctaagaagagtgcaaaaggcccatgaaaacaatggaaaagctaataagggagaaaaaaatgaattgaagacatatcattttcctgaacgggaagattcaacataaagatgctttttcttcccagttaatcaacagattcaaagctacctacaccaagagcttgggagtgggacctaatgcacttgatgcgaaagtttacagggaaaaataataaagcacagccaggataacgctgaaaaagaaaagtaacgacaagtgactaaccttacggatagtataacataaagtcacagtaattattattatttttttttttttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgctaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccttgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccaagtcacagtaattattatggaacctacacatagatcattggaggagataagaaagacaaaaaatagatccaagtaaacgtgagaatttagcacgataaagagagcagaatcaattagtggaaataaggtgaattattcaataaaattatgttgggaccagatagccatatggaaaagaaAATTATGTTGGCCCAATCAATCATCATTTGGCCACGTTGTGGCCTGTTATAACTCCAGTTCCACAGGGCTCCAAAGGCAACCATGCAGTTCATCTGCAACTCTTCACAAGAGCCCAGAAAATATCAGCTCTTAGGATTAGCCTTCACCTTATGCCAAGACAAACACATTTAAAAACAAGACATactttgggatgccgaggaaggcagatcacgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctggctgatatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggcgtggtggcacgcacctgtaaacccagctactcgggaggctgggacaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggaagcagaggttgcagtgagccaagatcaggccattgcactccagcctgggcaacagagtgagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagacataaaCAGTCTGGAGGAAAATAAGGGAGTTTTTTATTGTTGTTGTTAATAATTTTGGAGAGCAAAACGCCTTTCCATTTAAAACAAAACTCAGAAACCACAAGAGATTAGACTGAAAACTCCACAAAAATCAAAACTCTGGCAAGAACTACACAGAAGCAAACAGGGTGACTATAGCTTTGTCCCAAGACCTATTTTTACATTAaatatataaagaactccttcaaatctataaggaaaaaaaatcaaacaacccaagagaacattaggcaaaggttataaataagtcattcactgaaaaggaaatccaaatggctccaaaaacaggaaaatatgctttctatctcaattaaaaggcaaataaacattaaaattactaccagatataatttttcacctaccagattaacaaagattgaaaaatctaacctattaaaaataaatatgctctttatcccttagacccaaccatgctactttggggatttaatattacaagaattctgcaaaatgacaatacctggaaagaacgtttgaacttttcgtattagcaaaagattgaaaacaattttgcgtccatcaaccaaaaggacacgataaacaaatcacaatatgttcatctcatggaattcaccgtggccggtaagaaggacaagggtgctcgacaggttctgatctacatcaaagatgcagacatgaagtgaaaacgaaaacaggggcagaacagtgtgtatggtgtgactttgcttgtgcttagaaaaaaAACACAAGTGCAggctgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggcggatcacaaggtcaggagttggagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaataaaaaaaaaaattagctgggcatggtggcgcatgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgacagggggtcggaggttgcggtgagccgagatcacgccactgcactccagcctggcaagactgcaagactcgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaaagaaaTACATACGCCTGTATTGACACAGAAGGTCCTGGAAAGACACAGAAAAATGGGAACAGTAGTTACCCCTATGATGGAAACTGAGGGCTGGGGGCCAATAGTAGGAAAGAACTTTCTTTTCATAATCTAAACTCCTTTGTATCTTTAAAACTTTCTGCCATATCAACAAGtttaaaaataattttaaaacaaaatacaaaataaaaaCTGAACAGTccgggtgcggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagtactttgggaggccgaggcaggtagatcatttgaggccaggagttcgagatcagcctggccaacatggcaaaaccccatctctactaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattgcagggtgtggtgcacatgccctgtagccccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcccttgagcccgggaggtggaggctgcagtgagccgagatcacgccactcaactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagactccgtctcaaaaaataaataaaataaaaacaaaaaCTGAACATTCATGATGATGAAAAATCAAAAGTAACCTACATGCCGTCCACAGGGGAAGGCAGCAGCCTGCAGCCAAGGGTGAGGTTGATCCCTGCTTGCAAAGGCAGACGGAGCTCCAAGGCCGACTATGGGAAAAGGGCGCCACAGAACAATTCGTGCGATGAAAAACCTCACGCGACGTTCCCTTTTCCTGTGGATAGATCTGCATCTATGCACAGGGCAGACAACTCCCAACACGGCCAGGGGTGATCCCTGTGCTTGCTAGAACTGGGGGTGGCAAAGACAACTTCAGATGTTCACGTAACttttttttttttttttgagacggagtcttgctctgttgcccaggctggaatccagtggcgcgatctcggttcactgaaacctccgcctcccgggttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctaggattatgggcacgcaccaccacgctcggctaatttgtttttttttatttttattttttcagtagagacagagtttcaaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacCGCCACCGGCCTTGTTCGTGTAATTTTGTATTTTCTCATGATGAATACATCCCAAACTCattttattttattttactttattttTTAAAGGCTGGAGACTGATGAAATGTCAGCAGTAGTTGCTTTGGTGTGGTGAACAATGCATGATTTTAATTTTTTTTTTCCTTTTTCTACTTTTCAAATACTCTACAACGAGCAGATCTCGAATGCCCAGCAAAAGCTAAGCTCCGCGAGGCGGCCCTGGAATGAGGCGACCCCGGAATGAGGCGGCCCCCGCGAGCGCCAGGCCCCCGCCCAGCGCTCACTTACTTGTCTGGGACGCCGGGTGCTCCTGGCTTCTCTGGAAGGGGTACCTGAACAGCAGCTTATTGCCCCTGCTCCCCGAGCTCACCAGAATCACGCTGATGGGGCTGGTGTTGTCCCGCATCCCGCCgtggggccggggccgggggcggagggggccagaggaggacggagccggaggcggagggggcctgaggaggacggagccggaggcggagggggcctgaggaggacgaggcggggacgcagggggcctgaggagggcaggggtggaggcggagggggcctgaggagggcaggggtggaggcggagggggcctgaggagggcaggggtggaggcggagggggcctgaggagggcaggggtggaggcggagggggcctgagtagggcaggggtggaggcggagggggcctgaggagggcaggggtggaggcggaggGGGCCTGAGGAGGACAGGGGTGGTGGTGGACGCGGAGCAGCGCCACAGTTACCAACCCACGTGCCACGCTCCGGGCTCGCGAGACTTCGGCGACACCGTCCGGAGGAGGTGCTAAGGCGGCGGCCGGGAGAACggcgcaggcgcaggcgcaggcgcaggcAGCGGAATGCGCAGGCGCGGGGCCTTCTGGAAGCCACCGAGTTCCGCGGTGCTGTCTGGAGCCGTACGGTTCGCGTTTGGGGCACAGGGGCCCCTCTTGCTGGTGCGGATGGGAAAGGCGCGGGGTCGAGTCAGCGTCCCTCTCGATGTTGGTTTCTTCGTTTTACAAATAACACTTGggcggggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcattttgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctagctaacatagtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaattagaagaaattatccgggcgtggtggcaggcgcccgtaatcctagaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggaggcggaggttgcattgagccaagatcacgccattgcactccaccctgggcgacagagcgacgagaccccgtatcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaagaaagaaagaaaAAAGAAAAAAAAAAggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggtgaatcacgaggtcaggagttcgagaccatcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgagacaggaaaatcgcttgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcggtgagccgagattgcgccactgcactacagcctaggcgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCACTTGGAAGCCGACaggagatctttgagaccttgggcgaggcagtgacactaaaggcaggagcgactacagaagaataaattaaacttcatcagattaaaaactttactgcggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgaaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggcagatcatgagatcaggagatctagaccatcctggccaacatggtaaaaccccgtctctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtttggcggcgcctgcttctaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaagccgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcgtgccactgaactctggcctggcgacagagcgagactccatctcaaaacaaaacaaaaacttcggtgctttaaaggacaccatcaagaaaattaaaagtccacccacagaacgggagaaaatatttgtaagttacatatctgataagggaattgtatctagaatggaggaaacttacaactcaacaataaaaagacaattgaaaaatgcacaaaggatatgaatatttttccagtgcattatgcaaatggccaataagcaccagaagatgctcagcTCAACTGGTAGAGGCTTACGCCTGTGACCCCAGCGCTGAGAGGCCAGGAACTCCAGACCAGCCTGGGCAAAACAGAAATTaaaaatgctcaacattattaggcattagggagatgcaaatcaaaactacaaatagatgccacatcacacctcctacgatggctgtaatcaaaaagacaagcgtcagcaggggtgtggagaaacgggaatctctctcctgctggtgggaatgtaagaggctacactcgctatggaaaacaggctggcagttcctgaaaggttagagttaacacaacactcggcaaatcccccttttagatatatagccaagagaaatgaaagcatatgtccacacaaaaacatgtgtgttcttagtaatattattcataatagcccaaagtggaagcaatcctagggtatatcaattgatgaatgggtgaatatggtatagtttgtttaagggaatactattcagccataaaaaggaatgaagtacggcacatgaatccatcttgaagacacactaatatatgattccatttatataagatgcccagaataggcaaatccatagagacagaatgattagtggctgcctagggcttccagggggtcaggggaaatatggagcgattcatgggttttttgaaggggagtgatgaaaatgttctaacgttgactgtggtaatggttggacagctctgagaacgcgaatacactaaaagacatggaagtgccgggcgcagtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcgctttgggaggccaaggcaggcggatcgcgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaagacagtgaaaccccgtgtctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagctggacatggtgcgggcgcctgtagtcccagatactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccaagatcgcaccattgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccatctcaaaaacaaaaaaaagatatggaagtgtacacttgaagtggataagctttatggtatgcaaattggtatggtatggtaaattatatctcaatgaagttgttttttaaaaaaTCACCCCACCTACCCTATCCCAGGCTTCCCCAGGAGGTAACTAAAGGTAATGAGCTTCTTTGGCTGCTTCCAGAACTTTCCCAAGCACATCAAATGCATCAGAACCTAACCACTTGACTGAGGGATGAGCATTTTCACTGTTGCAAGTAACCCTCTTGCACCAACACTGACACTAATGTGTATTTTGCAGAACAAATTTGTGGATTGGCCTCACCAGGGTGAAGGGTACGTGCATTTGAAATGGCTCAACAGTACCAACAGGTGCGTTTTCTTGCACAGGGCTGCATAACAttttttttttttttttgagacagagtctcgctctatcacccaggctggagggcagtggcacaatctcagttcactgcaagctccacctaccaggttcacatcattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccacaccaggctaattttttttttttttttgagatggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacgatctcagctcactgcaagctccacctcccaggttcacaccattctcctgcctcagcctccccagtagctgagactacaggcgcccgccaccacgtccggctaatttttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccgcgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcttgatccacccgcctcggcctctcaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgtgcccggccTGCATAACATTTTTTTTTTTCCTGAAATTCCCAGAAAGGAAAATGGTGTCTTGTTCTATGTTGCATTTCTTTGATTGAGAGGGAGAGCTGCATCACTTAATTATTTGCAGAGAATTGCTTTTCTTGTTTTCTTTACAGGTGGTCTGTTCTTGGATGGTCTGGCTGTGTTCTTTCTGAGGAATACATAACCTCTGCTACACATTTTGCAAGGCTTTATCCCCGTTGTCCATGTTTTGATTTTATGTATAATCAAAAGGTTTGTGAGTTCTCCCGCACTTCCCAGGAGTGCCTCTGGGATGGAAATGAGACTGCAGGAGCAGGGCTTGAGGCTGGAGGGGTGAGATGGGACAGATGGGGGTGGGGGAACCCAGGGCAGTGGCCGGTGGTGGTAATGGAGGCCTCCTCACAGGGACCCTCACAGCGACCATGCGAATGGAGCAGGACTGTGACTCAGGTCTCGCTCTTCTGACCTAATCGTGCTGCTGCCCCAATGGGCAGAACCTTGGGGCTCCAGACTGGACATCTCTGGGCTCAAAGGATCCCACTGTTCCCCCGGTTACCCTCTCAGGGTTGGCCTCCTGCCAGTAACCCTGGCACTCATTGTTCATTCTTCTGACTATCGTCAGTCATAATGAGAGCTCGAACTGGTGAAAGTGCAGGGAGCTCACCATGACCCCAGCCCACAGAGGTCCTGGGTGCGTCCCTGCCCTCGAAGCAGCACTCTGGATCCCAGCGCCACCCTCATGTCCATGTTTGCACCTCATTGGCTGTGACAGAAATGAGACATCATTGTCACACGCTGGCCTGAGGGTCAGTGGGCCTTGctttggacctcagtttccccaccagtaacagggttcagagcagatggtccctgagtgagtcccagctctaagttctCCCAGGGTCTCCTGGACAATGAAGCACCAGGGCCAACCTCCATTTGCTACAGGGGACATCCTCAGGCTCTTCTCTGCTAAGACCCCACACCTCCAAGTCTCCTCATTTTACCTTTAAATAGCTGTTTCATGACCTGCTTTTTTGACGGTAAGTAGATTTTTGGAAACTGAAACCCCTGACCCTTCCTCCCAGCCTGGGCCTGCCCTTGGCAGGATAGGAGGCCTTATCGGTCCTGCCACTTGGTCTGGGCCTCAAAGGGCCACCGCCATCTGCAGGAGGGCCGGGTGGGGTTCACAGACGCTATCTGGGACTTGCCTGGACACCTCCACCTTCTCAGCTGAGTGTTGCTGCCCCACCAGGGAGAACCACTCACACACAGTAGTAATAGAAATAATTTAAAATTCATGCTGCAAGTTCCTGAGCGCcctcccaacactgaggtgggggctagtctaatccccatcctagaggtgaaaacagtgaaactaggactcacaaggcaaattagcctgttcagggtcacCGAGGGTCCACTCTCATGGGAGAGTTTGCAGATGCCCAATCCGGCATTCTGCTGAGTGTCCAGTGGCTTGTAAGTGGCCAGACACCCTTTGAGCTCAGCCTCAGCTGCTCAGGCACAGAACGTGCCTGGAGCTTGGAATTCAGGCCAGAAACCACCAGTGGACACCAGCATTCCACACTCACTGCACAGGCTGGGGCTCAAACCAAGGCCCAGGGACAGGAAGGGACAAGCCCCAGCCCCAGCCGGACTCCCAGCCCACACAAACCATCAGGGCTTGTTTCCTGCTCCATGGAAGcctcagacatgtttcataacctcctggagcctccgtttccttatctttccaatgtaatgatgcccatgtgcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaagcactttaggaggccgaggtgggtggatcactggagctcaggagtttgaggccagcctgggcaacatggcaaaacgccatctctactaaaaacacaaatattacccaggcatagtggcacatgcctatagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggtgggaggatcacctgagcttgggaagttgagcctgcagtgagccaagattgtcacactgcactctagcctggaggacagagtaagaagaccctgtaacaaaacaaaacataacaaaacaaacaaacaaaaaacccaactaatgacaataaaataaaccctccctcacagggtggttgtgaggataaagcacccagaatgaagagtgttgctgccatgtgcagaacttagaaagtgctcaacagatgccagcCAAACAGACATGGACTCCCCTCAACACAGTCAACCCAAGGTTGACTGTCACCAAACGCAAAAGACCACACTGTAAAGCTTTTAGAAATGTGGTCTAGTggccgggcactgtggctcatgcctgtaatctcagcactttggaaggctgaggcgggcggatcacagggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctgaccacctgaccaacgtggtaaaaccccgtctctactaaagattcaaaaaattagccgggtgtagtgctacgtgcctgtaatcccagctgctcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggcggaggtacagtgagctgagatcgcgccattgcactccagcctgggagacagagagagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGttagccgggtggtagtggcatgtacctgtaatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggtaggagaatcgcttgagcctgggaggtagagggttgcggtgagccaagatggcgccactgcactccaatctgggcgagacactgagaccctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTGTGGTCTAGGAGACTCTCTTCACTttgagataaaatttgcatcacgtaaagataaccattttaacgagagcaagtcaacggcattcagcacattcagagtgttgtgcaacaaccacttctccctggttccaggacattttcatcgcctcagatggaaacgccctcctcacggaggcatctctcccggcctttgtcctccccggccctgacaaccactaatctactttctgctgggatttgcccattctggatgtttcctaaaaatggcttatctaagccccacagtttcatgcagcacgtagcctctggtgtgtgacgtccttcacttggtgtaatggttcgaggcttgtccatgtcgtagcctgggtcagaacttcattttcatggctgaataatatctcacggtgtggaaatatcacagtttgcttatctgttcatccagtgatggacatttgggttgtttctaccttttggctattgggaatggAAGGGATAACATTTTTTAATTGGATTTTTAAAGTCACTAGTTTGACTGCATTAAAATTACAAACTTTTGTTTAACGAGAATATCACTAAGATACAGAGTTGGGGAGATCTAACACATAAAAGTGACAAAGGAAttatatccagaatatttttgaaatttctacaaatcagtgactggcaacacagtgggaaagtggccaagactaaaatactttaataaagaggaaaccgaaatggccagtaaatatgggctcaacctcactaattatcaggaaaatgtaaattaagaccacaagagaaaccactacacactcaccaaaAATCACACACCCAATAAAAAGGTAAtttttttttttttttgagatgaagtctcactctattgcccaggctggagtacaatggcgcgatcttggctcactgcaacctccgcctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtacctgggattacaggcgcacaccaccacacccagctaattttgcatttttaagtagagacggggtttcaccatgtgggcaaggctagtctcgaactcctgacctcgtgatctgcccgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgagattacaggcatcagccactgtgcccggccTAAAAAAGGCTAAAATTTAAGAAGACCAGGAGTTTGACtgctatggttggaatgtttgtctcctctaaaactcttgttgaaacttaatccccagtgtggcagcgttgagaggtggggcctttggggtaaggaggttggatcatgagggtcctcccccaaggaatggattaatgagttgtcatgggagtgtggctggtggctttataagaagagagacctggccgggcacggtggctgacacctgtaatcccagcactttgtgaggccgagatgggcggatcacaaggtcaggggatcgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaaaaaaatgcaaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcacctgtagtcccagctactaggaaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgccctccagcctgggcgacagagcaagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaagaagagagatctgaggtggcacacaagcatgctcagcccacacgacctgcgattaatactctgtgccactttgggactctgcacgagtccccactgggctcgaaacttctcagcctccgtaactataggaaataaattccttttaaaataaattccacagtctcaggtattctattataagcaacagaaaatggagtaCTACaccgatcatatcaaatgtttagaaggatttggagcaaggagaatgctcgcacaccactagggaaaacataagttggttaaccactgtgaaaaagtttggcattctttactaaagttgaaaatctatatgccctatgacccagcaactttactcctaggtatgtatgtacaaaatagaatttcaggcatgtgggtaccaggtgacatgtaaaggaatgtttattgcagcattattcataatagccaagaactaaacaacacaaagttccagccccagtacaatgaataaactgtggtatattcctacaaggaaatattaatagatacagcaatgaaaatgaacacatataacatggctggtaaatctgacatgagagagtgaaagaagatggacATTCAGTGTGCAGACAGTTGGATTAAAAATATTTTTTTAAAggccaggcttggtggctcacatctataatcctagcacttacagaggccaaggcgggcagatcacctgaggtcaggagttcaggaccagcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccatctctactagaaaatacaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggtgcatgcctgtagtcccaactactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacctaggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccaagatcgcatcactgtactccatcctgggtgacagagcaagactgcgtctcgaaaataaatagataaataaataaataaCCAACAggccgggagcagtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggcagatcacgaggtcaggagatcaagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccctgtctctactgaaaatacaaaaaaattagccgggcatggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaacccgggaggtggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcatgccactgcactccagcctgagcgacagagcgagactccatctcaaaaaaataataaTTAAaaataaataaattaaataaataaataaCAGATTGCATAAAgtggctcatgcctgtaatccaagcactttgggaggccaaggcagaaggatcacttgagcccaggagttcaggacaagcctgagcaacatggtgaaaccccacctctacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagctgggcatggtggcatgtgcctgtgatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggaggatcacttaagcctgggaggtcgaggctgcaatgagctatgatcgtaccactgcactccagcctgggcaatagagcaagaccctgtctcaaaacaaataaacaaaaGCCAGACagacacaaatgagagcattctgtatcgtttcatttctatgaaggtgaaaagcaggcaaaaacaaccaaagtgcttgcagatgcatatctgagtagttaaaaacttactgaaaagcaggcctggctcacgcctttaatcccagcactttgggaagcgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatataaaaaattagccaggtatggtggctagtgcctgtggtcccagctactcgagaggctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaatccgggaggtggagcttgcagtgagctaagatcgtgcaactgcactccagcctgggcagcagagcgagactccctctcaaaaaaaaaaaaacttactgaaaagcaagaagtcaggtggaggttacctttggggaggATTGGGGTGCTGTCCGCTTTCTAATAATTCGTTAAACTATAGTCTACATCTTGTGCTATATTTCACAATGGAAAAACAGAAAAGAGCTCCTGCCCATAACGCTGCTTTGCAGGTTTGGAAATTTCAGATTCAATTCCTCTCCTTGCGGGGGCCAAGGATGGGAAGAGCAGGTGGTTCCAGTAGGGAAAGAGGAGGCCCTGGGGCCTCAAAATGGCTAAGGACCATTCCTCAGCGTGGGTGGCACCTACCCTGGAAACAGGACTCTACTTCCTCCTCTGTTAGGGGGCAGAGCAGCCCTGCAGTGCCTTCTGGGCACAGGTCCTCACTCTGCAGCTGGAGGAATTCTCCCAGGCACTGAGAGCCCTTCACGGCCCAAATGCCCCGTGCGCTCGGCCTCTGGACTTGCCTTCCCTGCTCTGTATATCTCCCTCCGCCTGACCCTCAGCCTCCTCCATCACTCACTGTCTTCTCTGCCAGTCTATTCATCTGTCTCTGTCCCTCTCTCTGCCACCTTCTCTCCTATTGAGAAGCCGAAACCTCAGGCACAGACCCACATCCCCTCCTCATGGGCCCATGTGCCCAAGGTGCCCCTAGGTGCCAGGCTGAGATGAACCAGGAGTGTCCTTCTGAACCCAGCAACAGCGAAGGGTGACCAGGGAGGGCCAGTTCATCTCGGTCTGAAAGAAGCCCCAGATGAGCAAAGGATACACTGGCCTCCTGCGGTCAGCAGCACTTCCCAGGACAGTGAGCAAGACAGGGGTAAGGCCAGAGTGGGTGGGCACACCCATGGGAGAGAGGAGCCGCTGTGAAATGTGCACGAGGAACAGACCAGCAAGGAGGATCCACGCAGTGCTAGAAGGGAGTTCCTGGAAGCCTGGTGGAGAGCCCCTCCCATCTGCTAAGCCCGGAGGGCATCAAAGGCTGCTGCTGCCCTCAACCCCTGACAATCTCATCATCTCATATCTCAGGCATGGAAGAATGAGGGCCATTACACGAGTAAAACATCAAGtacactccagcctggatgacagggccaggctccatctcaaaaaaaaaTGCCTGTGGTCAAAGCTCTCCTGACAGGGGAAAACAAAACAAAACAAACTTCTCCTTAAAGAAAACATTTGCCTTTGACTGCatcataattccagcaggattttgtgcagataactctttggctaactctaaaattaatacagaaaggtaaagaaattagaatagccaaagaaattttgaaaaggaagaataaagcgagaggaatcacattCCTCAAtttttaacagctctattgagataaaattcacataccatacggttcacccatttaaagtgtataattcaggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaagcgggcagatcacctgaggtcgggaattcgagaccagtctgaccaacatggagaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaattagccaggcgtggtggctcatgcctgtactcccagctactcggaagactgaggcaagagaattgcttgaacccgggagacggaggttgccatgagccgagatcgcgccaccacacccagcTGccattttttaattgattacttgtctatttattactgagttgtaagatattttgggccaagcacggtggctaacgcctgtaatcccagcactttaggaggctatggtgggcaaatcacttgaggtcaggagttcgagaccaggctggccaacatggcaaaacaccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaattagccaggtgtggccaggcgtggtgactcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggtggatcacctgaggtcgggggctcaagaccagcctgaccaacatggagaaaccccgactccgctaaaaatacaaaattagccgggtgtggtggtgcatgcctgtaatcccagctactcacgaagctgaggcaggagaatggcttgagcccaggaggcagaggttgtggtgagctgagatcatgccattgtactccagcctgggcgacaagagcgaaattctgtcacaaaaaaaaaaaaaccattagccagccatggtgatgcacacccgtggtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggtatgagaattgcttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagcgagccaggattacgccgctgcactccagtctgggtgacagagcaagactctgtctaaaaaaaaaacaaaaacaaaaaagatattttgtatgtgtttggataacttccctatcagatatatgatttgcaaatatgtttctctcattctgtgagacatcattcaattttaagacatcacagagctatgttaatcaaggcactgtggctgtggtaaaggatagacacacagaacagaacagagagcccagaaatggacccgcaaacctatgccccattcattttttacaaataagtgcgagaagccaactgaatagaaagcgtatagctttttcaaaaaacagtgctggaacaattggacatctgtaggcaaaaaaacaaacaagcaaacagaagaatctggacctgcccttcacacctcagacaaaagtcatctcaaaatggattgtagatctcaatataaacataaactatacaactttagaagaaaatataggtgaaactctttgtgttctgtggttaggcagacagttcctaggcatggcactaagtaagattcatttaaaattttttgacaaattggactttattaaaacttttgctctacaaaagacaatattaagagaatgaactaacaagctacaaactaagagaaaacatttgcaaattgcatatctgacaagggattgcttccagacgatacacagaattctaaaaattcatccttaagagaataaaccacccaatttttaaatgggcaaaacaggccaggcgtggtggtgcacgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggcggatcacaaggtcaggagattgagaccatcctagctaacacggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcatggtggcaggtgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagtggagatcgcaccactgcgctccagcctgggcaacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaagacaaaatacttgaaaagatattggctaggcgcgctggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggtggatcacaaggtcaggagttcaagcagcctggccaagatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTTggccgggcacagtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaggtggatcaggagtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctatgaaaatacaaaaattagccagagatgatgccgggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcatgaggctgaggcagaagaatcacttgaaccagggagtcagaggttgcagtgagctgagatcgcaccactgcactccaccctgggcgacaaatcgagattccatctcaaaaaaagaaaaaaaaattaaaaggaaTATTTGCCTCATTATGTTACAATAACTAATATGGAAAGCAATATTGCAATGCCTATTAGCACATGACATTAGGTGAATTCTCCTTTGTCCCCGGACCTGCTGCCTCCTCCTGCTTGTCAGGGGACAGATCCAGTACATCTCCCCTCAGCGCTGGGTGGACCTAACCCTTGCTTTCTTGGAGGAAACCCAGGAATCCAGAGACAAAGTGGAAGGGTACTGGCATGTGGTTGGGCAGGGCTGCCTGAGGTCGGTGTCAGCCGACCGTGGGGCTTGGTCCCAGGAGGCTGCTTACTGGGCCCTGCTCCTCTGGTTTCCCCCAAGTCGTGATTCTGAAATGAATAAGGACGGTGCAGAACTGGACTACAAATGCAGGAGTGACTTCCTGGGAGGGTGGGGCCCCTATCTCTCCTAGACTCTGTGGTCAGACTCTGGCCAACACCCCCTGTAAGGCCACAGGAGAGGAACAGGAGTGATAGCCCCCAAACCCCAGTCCCACCAGGCCCTGAGGGCCCCTTTGTCACTGGATCTGATAAGAAACACCACCCCTGCAGCCCCCTCCCCTCACCTGACCAATGGCCACAGCCTGGCTGGGCCCAGCTCCCTGTATATAAGGGGACCCTGGGGGCTGAGCACTACCAAGGCCAGTCCTGAGCAGGCCCAACTCCAGTGCAGCTGCCCACCCTGCCGCCATGTCTCTGACCAAGACTGAGAGGACCATCATTGTGTCCATGTGGGCCAAGATCTCCACGCAGGCCGACACCATCGGCACCGAGACTCTGGAGAGGTGAGTGTCAGACGGGACTGCCAGAGGGACTGGGTGGGAGGCCAGGTATGTGAGTGGGGACAGTggggagggggcggtggggaggggacagtggggaggggaccatggagaggagacagtggggagggcactgtggggagaggacagtgaggaggggaccttggggaggggacagtgaggagggaaccgtggagaggggacagtgaggaagggacagtgaggACAGATAGCGTTCCCTCTCAGTGAGGAGAGCAGGGTAAGGAGGGAACGATTAGGAGTTGCACAACCATCTGGGCTCGCTGAGACCTGGGCAGGCACAGGCCCAGGTTCTGACAAGCAGAGGGTGAAAGGTTTCGTTCTAGGCCTGAAGGGCCTTACAGGGCAGCCAGGGCACTACAGCCTCTAAAGTCCCAGCATCTGGGATCAGGGCACTGTCCCAGCTTCAAATTCCCAGCATCTGATCCCCTGGGAGGGGCCAGGGAGCTTTTCCTTCCCTGGAACGCTGCTGGGAGGTCATGAGCCTGCAGAAGGGGTGGCGGGCAACCCAGTCTGGGGCTGGGAGGGAGGTCCTGTGGCCAGAGGAGACGGTGGAGGGGCTGGGGGCACCAGGCGTGCTGGAGGCGGAGGGCGGGAGATTTGGGGACCAGGCTGCACAGAACCCGTCGGAAGCAGGGCGATCAGCCGGGAGCTGCAGAGGCCTGGGGGGCCTCTAGCCCAGGGCAGCCTGGGAGGGGCAGCTGCCTGGGCACCCGGGCCCCGCGAGGAGGGGCTGGGGCCTGCTGCGGGGTCGCAGATGTGTCCCGGTGCTCGGAGAGGGCCGCAGGGCGCGTGGGCCGTGGCGGGAGGCCGCGCTGCTGGGAGCTCACGGCCCCCGCCCCCCGTCCCAGGCTCTTCCTCAGCCACCCGCAGACCAAGACCTACTTCCCGCACTTCGACCTGCACCCGGGGTCCGCGCAGTTGCGCGCGCACGGCTCCAAGGTGGTGGCCGCCGTGGGCGACGCGGTGAAGAGCATCGACGACATCGGCGGCGCCCTGTCCAAGCTGAGCGAGCTGCACGCCTACATCCTGCGCGTGGACCCGGTCAACTTCAAGGTGCgcggggcgcggtgcgggcggggcgggacggggcggggcgcggtgcgggcggggcggggcggggcggggcggggaggggcggggaggggcggggtcgcggggcggatgcggggGTCGCCGGGCGGGGCCCGGGCTAGGCCCCGCCCCCTCACTGAGCCGCCCCCGCCCCCAGCTCCTGTCCCACTGCCTGCTGGTCACCCTGGCCGCGCGCTTCCCCGCCGACTTCACGGCCGAGGCCCACGCCGCCTGGGACAAGTTCCTATCGGTCGTATCCTCTGTCCTGACCGAGAAGTACCGCTGAGCGCCGCCTCCGGGACCCCCAGGACAGGCTGCGGCCCCTCCCCCGTCCTGGAGGTTCCCCAGCCCCACTTACCGCGTAATGCGCCAATAAACCAATGAACGAAGCAGCGTCCACCTGGTCTCTGTTGTCCGTGGGCGGCGGGCGCTTGGGGAGGCGGAGCGGGAGGAGGGCGCCCCGGCTGTCTCGGGGCCACTGCTGGGCCGCAGGGATCCTTGCACCGACCCCAGGGTCTCTAAGAGGCAGAGGGATGTGCAGCTCCCGGGGCGGGAGCGGGGGTCACTCGGGACCCAGGCGTGGTGGAGAAGGGGTGCAGTTAGGCCTTTGCGGAGGGGGGAGCAGTGCTGGCGCCCACCCGCCGCGGCTCTCCCTGGGACCTCCGTGGTCTTCCTTCTTTATTTCTCCCGAATGTGTACTATTTCCTGATTTCAGAACGATCAGGACGAAGAGGGGAGGGATGGGCGTCTGCGCTCACTCATTCCTTCTtccattcctcaatgaaacatttactgggcataagacagcctaggcatgtttctaggctatggataccgcagctgaaataaagaaagccctctgccccgtggggctgacaatctagtgggggatacagacgtgatgaagacagtcagatcacagTTCACAGAAATGAGACAGgaaaagaggctgagcctcactcataagagaaacgcaagttaaactacacaaaaataaaaaacctcactgagatccatgtctcacctccctgataggcaaaaatccaagagtttgaTCAGACTGCAGGCGCCCCTCCTCCACTGGGCACCCCTCATCCAGGGCAGAGGGAACCAGCCCGGGGCGCAAGTCCACCGGGGCATCTCATTTGCTAAAGACCTGAAAACCCAGGTGTCCATCATCAGGACTAACTGGAAAAACCAAGGGTATCCGCACCATGGAGAGCTCGACTGAAAAAAAAAAATGAGGATAATTGGATAAtttctttttttttttttttttttttcagacggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatcccggctcactgcaagctccgcctcctggtttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggtctacaggcgcccgccaccacggctggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccgcgcccgaccTAAAATGAGGATAATTTCTAATAATGAAAATAAAGAGGTTAGAATGGTGTGTATACAATGGTGGAACAGAGGAGAAACACGAATATGTGTGTGCACATATATGTGAGCTTATGCATAACTATGTATGAGGCTGCGTGTGGACATGTGTGTTTGTGCACAACCATGTatgtgcccgcatgtgcttatttctgcaaaaataaaccatggcaggacaaaccggaaatgaatacaaataataaggtgggtggggatggaggggaaggtggaaggaagctcctgcaagtctgactctctacatagttttgacctttgatttgtgtaaatattttacattatcaaaaataaatTCAggctgggcatggtggctcatacctgtagtcctagcactttgggagtccaaggggagaggattgcttgaggccaggagttgaaggccaccctggccaacatagagagaccctgtctttaaaaaaaattacaaaattaaggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactgtgggaggccgaggtgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagattgagaccgtcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaagtagaagaaattagccgggtgtggtggcgggtgcctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccaggttcaagccactgcccttcagcctaggtgatagagtgagactccttctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattacaaaattaataagattaaaataaaaagaggggccttgccagtggctcaagcctctaatcctaccacttgggaggccaaggctggaggatcccttgatgccaagagtcggaggccagcctaggtaacacagcaggacctcgtctcaaaaagattaaaaaaTTAACTGGGCATGGTagcctccaaattgggggttagcctgggaggtttgcccaggaaggaattcaagggcaagctggtggtgttacacagcaactctgattgatatcgaagccacagcagacagcaggagcagaacactgctccttacagagcaggggtaccccataggctgtgtgcacaggagagcaactcagaggcactgctgcactcatctttatacccacttttcattatatgcaaattaagggaaagttatgcacaaatttctaggatgagtgtggtaacttctgggtggtccagtcactgccatggaaagggatggtaaactcccatggcacactggtgggtgtgtcttatggaaagctgcttctgccctacttgttttagctggtcctcagtttggtccggtgtccgagcccaacatccggagtacatgcagagtcccacctcctacGTcacacctgcagttccagctactcaggaggctgaggctggaggattgctggagcccagatgttgaaggctacagtgagctatgattgtgccaccgcacttcagcctgagcaacacagcaatactctctctctaaaaaagcaaagcacacaaacaaaaagaGTgactgggtgcagtggctcacacttggaatcttagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggatggtcacttgagcctgggagttcaagaccagcctaggcaacatagcaagactttatctctactaaaatatatatatattttttaattagctggacatggtggtgcacctgcagtcccagctacttgggaggctgagttgggggtggaggggagtatcacttgagcccagaagttccaggctgtagtaagctatgattgcaccactgcactccagcctgggcaacagagagagaccttatctatatttaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagagagagaaaaTTGAAAACTCCTAATTGAAAACCCCCAAATTGAAAACTAACTTAAATAAATGAGCCAATGTAAGAATGTGGTGATATAATAATCAGAAAAAAGGATTGTTCCAGGTGACCTCTGAACACAGAACCTCGGCTATGACCGAAAGAACTCCAAAGACACTCTAACACTCCGTGGTTTATTGTTCCTCATAACATATATAAAATAATTTCATAAGCTTTTATTTTGAAACATATTCAGATTATGAAGAAATAAAAACACCCTGCAAGAATAAGACAAAGATggagaaggaaggatgactgctggtgggtttggggcttttggagggtgatggaaaccttctaaaattgattatggtgatggtcgcacaattatgtgaacacattaaaaattattgaaatgggccgggggtggtggctcacccctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaacgcgggcagattacctgagctcaggagttccagactaacctggccaacatggtgaaacccccgtccctactaaaaatgcaaaaattagccacgcatggtggcacatgcctgtaatcccagctactggggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacccaggagacagaggttgcagtgagccgagattgtgccactgaactccagcttggccgacagagtgagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaattattgaaatgtacacattaagtgggtgaattttatctcaataaaactgttaaataaaataacaagaatatgaaaaactcttgaatactactcatccagactctccagctgttaacattctaccacatcggcttgctctctcttgcccccacttgctctttctctcggagcccttggagaggggtatgcaaatatccgtactctaaatatcctccatatactgtgtatttcctaaaatcaacaaggacattaggctgcacagccagagaacaaccatcaaaatcaggttaatattgatCCaaatccatctatcaacagaagcaacatcaagttcaagacccttttgaaagcaatgataccagccatttactccatccctaaaggactgagggtgctgcgaatttaaccgtatcaatgcagtctttttgatgttatttactgaaggaaatggatgttctttaaaATATGTAtttatttatttttcttttttgagacggaatcttgttctgtcgcccaggctggagggcagtgggacaatcttggttcactgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaagaggttctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcgcgaaccaccacgcccggttaattttggtatttttagtagaggcggggttttaccatgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctgacATGGTAgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggtggggttgcagtgagccaagatcgtgccattgcactccagcctgggagacagagcgagactccatcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTTCCTGAAGCTcctcttgagcttacattctagtggactgtaaacagaaacatttttttttcctgtggataaagaaaagcagggcaagtaggggcttagacagaggaggggaggattcagattttaaatgggttggccactgtaggtctattaacgtggtgacatttgagGGAGTGGCAATACTAGGGAAGGGGCTTCAGGGGAGTGGCCAGGAGCTAGGGATAGAGGGAGGGAGGACAGGAGGCCTTGTCTGTCTTTTCCTCCATATGTAAGTTTCAGgagtgagtggggggtgtcgagggtgctgtgctctccggcctgagcctcaggaaggaagggcagtagtcagggatgccagggaaggacagtggagtaggctttgtggggaacttcacggttccattgttgagatgatttgctggagacacacagatgaggacatcaaatacatccctggatcaggccctggggcctgagtccggaagagaggtctgtatggacacacccatcaatgggagcaccaggacacagatggaggctaatgtcatgttgtagacaggatgggTGCTGAGCTGCCACACCCACATTATTAGAAAATAACAGCACAGGCTTGGGGTGGAGGCGGGACACAAGACTAGCCAGAAGGAGAAAGAAAGGTGAAAAGCTGTTGGTGCAAGGAAGCTCTTGGTATTTCCAATGGCTTGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGTGCCTGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGCAAGAGGTGCCCAGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCCTGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGAGGTGCCCAGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTTCAGAGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGACACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCTGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGTGCCTGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCCGGGTCGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGACGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGTGCCCGGGTCGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGCAAGAGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGTGCCCGGGACAGCTCGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGTGCCTGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGGATGCCCGGGATGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCTGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGAGGTGCCTGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGATGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGGGGTGCCCAGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGCAAGAGGTGCCCAGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGTTGTGAGAGGTGCCCGGGACGGCTTGTGGGGCACAGGCTGTGAGGGAGCCCGGCACGGCTTGCAGCTACAGGGAGAAAAGACTTGGTGCTGTGGGCCTGCCTTGGGGCTGGTGGTACAGCCCTTATCTGCTGCCCTCAGGATCTCCCGGCCCCTCTCGTCCAGGCCCCTGCAACCCCATGCCCCAGCCTCTGAGGACCAAAGGCGCCCCTGCTTGGGAAGAGGGGGCTCAGGGGAGTCGCCTGACCCGGTTCCAAGCCAGGCTGATTTACCGTTGCTAACATCCTATCGCACGCATCCCTCTGCCTCATGCACCCAACCCCAAGGCCTGGTACACTGCAGGCCCCAAGGTCCTGTGCGTCCTTTCAATACCCTCCTCACCTGCCTCACCTGCCCCCCCTACCCTGACTCTGGCTGGAGACCCCCTCCAGGGAGTTTTCAAAACAAAGGGTGTCAGTCTCCTGTGGGATTCCCTCACCTCTGCAGCCTGCGGTCTGAAAGCTGCCCCATGGTGTGTAGTGCTAAACTTCCAACTTACTCCAGGCCAGCGGTGACAGCCCGAGGGCAGGAAGGGCACCCACACTGAGCctcaaacagctaattttgcaactgtaagtccatataattgtcttgaaaagtaatttgtttcaaaaagctaaaaaacgaatactcttgagtctccttctagtaattccccttctagaggtctatcaccaggaaaagatccaaagcactgatattcttcatggagttgtttataatagaaaaaaactagaGCTTGTTCACAAAGGGGAGCTCTGCAGGCTGAAGATGTTGCACCTGTCAGCGGGGATGGGGGCACGCTTGCTGACGCAGCAACGGAAAAGCATCAGTGTGTGAAGATGCATTTTCTCTCTTTCTAttattattatttttatttttattttttctgaggcagaacctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtgatgcgacctcatcacaaccacgagcCACCATGTGCGGCCCCATGAGCAAGCCACCACGCCCAGCCTTTTTTTCCCTTGTTTTAAAAAATCCTCTATTTAAAAAAGATGTGCATGggccgggcacggtggttcacgctcataatcccagctctttcagaggccgaggcaggcagatcacctgaggtcaagagttcgacaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaattccatctgtactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggccgtggtggtgtgtgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggagactgaagcaggagaatcacttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgggtcaaaatcatgccaccacactccagtctgggagacagagcaagactccatctcagaaacaaactaacaaacaaaaTTTTTATATCTACCTATAATTCGTATAAATTTAAAATACATGCATAAAATCATACCCTTTGCAAGCACACGTACTAACTAAAAGGAATATATTCAGCACATAGAAATGGTTGTCTAACGGAGGAGGGGGGAGTTAATAAACAGAGAGGATAAAAAGAAATAAATCAGTAGAGCTGGAGGAGGGTCTCCTCCAGGCTGCGATGAGAACATAGTGAGCAGAATTGCAGGCCTGCATGACCTCACCTTCTGTGAGGAGTCCGGCCTCCCAAGACGCTTTCCTGCCTAGGTGCCCGGCTCAGAGTGTCCCCTACAAGGCTACTGGAGGAGAACCCCAGACCGAGCCTCATTCAGGTGAGGGGGCTGCACACCGGAGGTGGGAGAGGtctgtcccttcccaccctgtgacactgggtcccactttctctctagggggtctcggtttcctcatttgcaaactggagctcataaGGTGGGCCAGAGAAGTTTCAGTGAAGTGAGGAATGGATCGTCCCTCTGCCAGGGCCCATGTGCTCTAGGTCACCCTGTCATCACAGGGACAGGGAGGTCAAGGACAGTCACTCCTGAGGCCAGTCCGGGCTGGGCTGACCACGTGGACTCTCATGCCCAGATTGGGGCCCCAATCTCCCTGAAGCTGGGGCTCCAGCTGTGACTCAGGGGTGGGCAGAAGGGGAGACAGAAGCGATAGGTTCCTCAGCCCCCAGTCCCACCTGAGGGCCCCTTTGTCACTGGATCTGATAAGAAACACCACCCCTGCAGCCCCCTCCCCTCACCTGACCAATGGCCACAGCCTGGCTGGGCCCAGCTCCCTGTATATAAGGGGACCCTGGGGGCTGAGCACTACCAAGGCCAGTCCTGAGCAGGCCCAACTCCAGTGCAGCCGCCCACCCTGCCGCCATGTCTCTGACCAAGACTTAGGGGACCATCATTGTGTCCATGTGGGCCAAGATCTCCACGCAGGCCGACACCATCGGCACCGAGACTCTGGAGAGGTGAGTGTCAGATGGGACTGCCAGAGGGACTGGGTGGGAGGCCAGGTATGTGAGTGGGGACAGTGGGGAGCGGGCAGTGGGGAGGGGACCGTGGGGAGGGGACAGTGAGTAGGAGACAGTGGGGAGAGGACAGTGGAGAGGGGACAGTGAGGAGGGGACCATGGGAAGGGGACCGTGGAGTGGGGACAGTGAGGAGGGGACCATAgggaggggacagtggggaggggacagtgaggaggggaccgtggggaggggacagtgaggaggggaccgtggggaggagacagtgaggaggggaccgtagggaggggacagtgaggaggggaccgtggggaggggacagtgaggaggggaccgtggggaggggacagtgaggaggggaccgtgggaaggagacagtgaggaggggaccttggggaggggacagtgaggaggggaccatggggaggggacagtgaggaggggacaatggagaggggacagtgaggaggggactgtggggagaggacagtgaggaggggaccatggggagggcacagtggggaggggagagtgaggaagggacagtgaggaggggactgtggggaggggacagtggagACAGATAGCCTTCCCTCTCAGTGAGGAGGGCAGGGTAAGGAGGGAACGATTAGGAGTTGCACAACCATCTGGGCTCGCTGAGACCTGGGCAGGCACAGGCCCAGGTTCTGACAAGCAGAGGGTGAAAGGTTTCGTTCTAGGCCTGAAGGGCCTTACAGGGCAGCCAGGGCACTACAGCCTCTAAAGTCCCAGCATCTGGGATCAGGGCACTGTCCCAGCTTCAAATTCCCAGCATCTGATCCCCTGGGAGGGGCCAGGGAGCTTTTCCTTCCCTGGAACGCTGCTGGGAGGTCATGAGCCTGCAGAAGGGGTGGCGGGCAACCCAGTCTGGGGCTGGGAGGGAGGTCCTGTGGCCAGAGGAGACGGTGGAGGGGCTGGGGGCACCAGGCGTGCTGGAGGCGGAGGGCGGGAGATTTGGGGACCAGGCTGCACAGAACCCGTCGGAAGCAGGGCGATCAGCCGGGAGCTGCAGAGGCCTGGGGGGCCTCTAGCCCAGGGCAGCCTGGGAGGGGCAGCTGCCTGGGCACCCGGGCCCCGCGAGGAGGGGCTGGGGCCTGCTGCGGGGTCGCAGATGTGTCCCGGTGCTCGGAGAGGGCCGCAGGGCGCGTGGGCCGTGGCGGGAGGCCGCGCTGCTGGGAGCTCACGGCCCCCGCCCCCCGTCCCAGGCTCTTCCTCAGCCACCCGCAGACCAAGACCTACTTCCCGCACTTCGACCTGCACCCGGGGTCCGCGCAGTTGCGCGCGCACGGCTCCAAGGTGGTGGCCGCCGTGGGCGACGCGGTGAAGAGCATCGACGACATCGGCGGCGCCCTGTCCAAGCTGAGCGAGCTGCACGCCTACATCCTGCGCGTGGACCCGGTCAACTTCAAGGTGCgcggggcgcggtgcgggcggggcggggcggggccgcggggcgggcggggccgcggggcggggtcgcggggcggggcggggtggggtcgcggggcggggcggggtcgcggggcggggcggggcggggcggggcgggcggggcggccggggcccggcggggcggggcggggcggggaggggctgggcggggcggggcgcggggcggggcgggccgggccggggcggggtcgcggggcggggtcgcggggcggggcgcggggcggggcggggcggggtggggtcgcggggcggggcCCGGGCTAGGCCCCGCCCCCGCACTGAGCCGCCCCCGCCCCCAGCTCCTGTCCCACTGCCTGCTGGTCACCCTGGCCGCGCGCTTCCCCGCCGACTTCACGGCCGAGGCCCACGCCGCCTGGGCCAAGTTCCTATCGGTCGTATCCTCTGTCCTGACCGAGAAGTACCGCTGAGCGCCGCCTCCGGGACCCCCAGGACAGGCTGCGGCCCCTCCCCTGCCCTTCACCCTCCCACAGTTCCTGCCCTGACTCCAATAAATGGATGAGGACGGAGCGATCTGGGCTCTGTGTTCTCAGTATTGGAGGGAAGGAGGGGAGAAGCTGAGTGATGGGTCCGGGGGCTTCGCAGGAACTCGGTCGTCCCCACTGTCGTCGCGGCCTGGGGTTCACTTGGGGGGCGCCTTGGGGAGGTTCTAGCCCCTGAGCACCGGAGCTGCGGCCCGGGTGGAGCGGAGCAGTCCCGGGCCGGCCCGCGGCGTCTCCTGGGGTCCTTGAGTCGGACGGGCGTTTGTGCGTCTCCCGGCTTCCCATATCGCACAAAGATTGTCACTTCACTAAGCGTATTGGAAGCGTGTCGGGGCTCAGGGAACTTTTCCACAAAGCCTGACGTCCGAATCCCGGGACTCTGGCAGCTACGGGGGTCCCTGAGGCCGGTCCCTCCCCGACTCCTAAGAGAGTAGGGGGTTTCCTGCCCGGTGTTCTCTCTCCGGTTCCTCCCATGTGCTCCCTCCTGGCAGAGCAGTAACTTTACCCGAGGGGAGTAAACAGATGCCCCTAAAGTCTGCAGTAAAGGTGCCCACGCGCAACGGCGTGGGTCAATGCCAGAAACCCTGGGATCCCGGAGGTCGAGGCCTCCACACAGACGGGAACCCGGGCTGGTTACGTTCCCCGGCGCAGGCCGAGGGTCCCCGCGTTCCCGCCGCGCTCGGGCCGATAAGGACGGGCGGGGTGCCCGGAGGCTCTATAAGGAGGCCAGGGCGGCGGGCGCGGCCCCCAGAGCACGTCAGGCGGCGCCATGCTCAGCGCCCAGGAGCGCGCCCAAATCGCGCAGGTCTGGGACCTGATTGCGGGCCACGAGGCGCAATTCGGGGCGGAGCTGCTGCTCAGGTCGGTAGAGGCGGGGTCTCCGGGAGCTCAGGGAGGTGGAGATGAGGGTTTTGGGCGCGTGGGCCGCCAACGCCATCCAAGGTCCTTCGGGTGCGGATCCCCGGGCTCTGGGCGGTGTGGGCGCTAGTGAAGCCCCACGCAGCCGCCCTCCTCCCCGGTCACTGACCTGGTCCTGCAGGCTCTTCACGGTGTACCCCAGCACCAAGGTCTACTTCCCGCACCTGAGCGCCTGCCAGGACGCGACGCAGCTGCTGAGCCACGGGCAGCGCATGCTGGCGGCTGTGGGCGCGGCGGTGCAGCACGTGGACAACCTGCGCGCCGCGCTGAGCCCGCTGGCGGACCTGCACGCGCTCGTGCTGCGCGTGGACCCAGCCAACTTTCCGGTGAGGCCTTTCCGGCCGGGGCAATGGTGCAGCGCGCAGCCGGGGTGGGGGGGCTCTGGGGGTCCCTAGCGGGGCAGACCCCGTCTCACCGGCCCCTTCTCCTGCAGCTGCTAATCCAGTGTTTCCACGTCGTGCTGGCCTCCCACCTGCAGGACGAGTTCACCGTGCAAATGCAAGCGGCGTGGGACAAGTTCCTGACTGGTGTGGCCGTGGTGCTGACCGAAAAATACCGCTGAGCCCTGTGCTGCGCAGGCCTTGGTCTGTGCCTGTCAATAAACAGAGGCCCGAACCATCTGCCCCTGCCTGTGTGGTCTTTGGGGAGCTAGCAAAGCGAGGTCACTATTGTTGGCCAGTGAAGCTCAGGGACCTAAAAGGAGCCTCCTAGAACTCTCAAATGCGCCCCACCCCCGGAGGTTTGTCCTCCCATGGCGAGGAGTGCGATGGGGCAGAGGGAGCACTGTGATGTGGCGGGGGTAGGGAGGGTGGCCTTCGACTTCAACCCTTGAATCGGGCTTCCAACCATactgttcgcaaagcacttccccattcacgcatttattcattcattctccctccatccccacttcctgctgggacctgtagatgctaatcctggccctttttgcagagagatgcagaaactgaggtcccagagCCAAATGTGCAACCTAATTCGTTGGCCCAGAGCAGAGGGCTCCGCAGACCTGTTCCTTTCCCCTTCCTTCCCCCATGGACACTTCCTCAGTGGCAAACCTGCGCTAGCCTGGTTAGCCCTCCCTGTGACCCTGCAGCCCTGGGGATGAGGTCGGGAGGAAGTCCTCAGTGGCCACAAtttggcagacagagcaggtttagtcttccagcctgctcaatgacaagctgtgcgaccctgggcgtgtcccagagctctcaggcctttacctatcgaatagaaaaacaacgtccaactcacgagatttttgaaataatttttgaaatcatAACACAGGGTGGGTGCCTGCAGGGTCGTTGCCACCCCACCCCTCCACCCAGCCCCAGCTGCCGTGTCTCAATCTCTGCAGGTGCCCAGGCCAAGGCACTCCCTTCCCCAGGTTCCCTCTTCTCCCTCCCCAGGACTGGGAAGGGAATCTTAGGGCTCCACCCCAGGCTTTTCAGACAAAGAATAGGGGCTGAGGAAAGAGTGGGACCTTGGAGGTCTCCAAACCCTGAATAGGGTTGGCTCTGGGTTGGCCATCCTGGGTCTGTGTGGGGAGCACTGGACCAGGCCTGGCACCCAGGTCTGACCTGGCAGTCAGCAACGAGGTCTGAAGAGAGCTGCTGGAAGTGGAGCCCTGACTGTGAGTCGGCCAAACTCCCCCCAGCAGTCAGTGCCAGTGACCTGTTGCCCTGCACTGCCTGGGACCCCAGCCCGGTAGTTTGGAGAACTTGGCCCCACGTTATCTACATCCCCCAACTGTTTTTTTGTTTTTGGGGGTtttttttttttttgctttgtttttgtttttgagataggcccttgctctgacaccccggctggagtgcagtggcacagttttggctcactgcagcctcaacctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctctgtctcccgtgtagctgggattacaggcatgggccgccattcctggctaatttttgtatttttaatagagacacagtttcaccatgttgatcaggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcaagtgatctgccctcctcggtctcccaaagtgctgggatgacaggcgtgagccaccacacccagccCCCGCAACTGTTTACATGGATAATTAACAGCTTTTTGTCCCAGGCAGAGTTTGGTGTGAAAGCAGCTTATGTTTCACTTTGGAAAAACTGTGCTCTTCTCCCCATCCAGGAAGCTGCCTGGGTCTGGGCCATATGTGGATACCTTATGGGTATAAGCTGCTCAGGACCCTGTGTGGAAGCTCAGGACAATGCCAGCGGGAAGGCTACCATGTGGAGAGCTGGTCTCTGTTTGGGCAGGACTAAGAGACGCAGGGCAGCCTTGGGCAACCTGTCTACTCTCACTCACTCCTCCTCCCCTTTCCTGTGCCAGGCACCTCCTGGCAACTTGCCAGCCAATGACCCTGCATCCCAGGCATAAGAGCTCCTACTCTCCCCCACCTTTCACTTTTGAGCTTACACAGACTCAGAAATAAGCTGCCGTGGTGCTGTCTCCTGAGGACAAGGCTAACACCAAGGCGGTCTGGGAGAAAGTTGGCAACCACACTGCTGGCTATGCCACGGAGGCCCTGGAGAGGCAAGAACCCTCCTCTCCCTGCTCACACCTTGGGTCCAACGCCCACTCCAGGGCTCCACTGGCCACCCCTAACTATTCTTACCCTGGACCCAGCCCCCAGCCCCTCACTCTTTGCTTCCCCCTGAAGCATGTTCCTGACCTTCCTCTCACTTGGCCCTGAGTTATGGCTCAGCCCAGATCAAGAAACAATGCAAGTAGGTGGCCGACACGCTGACCAATGCCGTGGTCCACTTAGATGACATGCCCAATGATGTGTCTGAGCTGAGGAAGCTGCATGTCCACGAGCTGTGGGTGGACCCAGGCAACATCAGGGAGAGCTTTGGGCTGGGAGGAATCTAGGGTGTGGGGGCAGCTGGCCTTCCTCATAGGACAGACCCTCCCACGCGTTCAGGGAGGTGGAGCACAGGTGGCAGTAGTATCTGCATCCCCTGACTCTCTCTCCACAGTTCCTGGGTAAATGCCTGCTGGTGACCTAGGCCTGCCACACCCTTCCCAGTTTACCCATGTGGTGCCTCCATGGACAAATTATTTGCTTTTGTGAGTGCTGTGTTGACCTAAAAACACCATTAAGCTAGAGCATTGGTGGTCATGCCCCCTGCCTGCTGGGCCTCCCACCAGGCCCTCCTCCCCTCCCTGCCCCAGCACTTCCTGATCTTTGAATGAAGTCCGAGTAGGCAGCAGCCTGTGTGTGCCTGGGTTCTCTCTGTCCCGGAATGTGCCAACAGTGGAGGTGTTTACCTGTCTCAGACCAAGGACCTCTCTGCAGCTGCATGGGGCTGGGGAGGGAGAACTGCAGGGAGTATGGGAGGGGAAGCTGAGGTGGGCCTGCTCAAGAGAAGGTGCTGAACCATCCCCTGTCCTGAGAGGTGCCAGGCCTGCAGGCAGTGGCTCAGAAGCTGGGGAGGAGAGAGGCATCCAGGGTTCTACTCAGGGAGTCCCAGCATCGCCACCCTCCTTTGAAATCTCCCTGGTTGAACCCAGTTAACATACGCTCTCCATcaaaacaaaacgaaacaaaacaaaCTAGCAAAATAGGCTGTCCCCAATGCAAGTGCAGGTGCCAGAACATTTCTCTCATTCTCACCCCTTCCTGCCAGAGGGTAGGTGGCTGGAGTGAGGGTGCTGGCCCTACTCACACTTCCTGTGTCATGGTGACCCTCTGAGAGCAGCCCAGTCAGTGGGGAAGGAGGAAGGGGCTGGGATGCTCACAGCCGGCAGCCCACACCTGGGGAGACTCTTCAGCAGAGCACCTTGCGGCCTTACTCCTGCACGTCTCCTGCAGTTTGTAAGGTGCATTCAGAACTCACTGTGTGCCCAGCCCTGAGCTCCCAGCTAATTGCCCCACCCAGGGCCTCTGGGACCTCCTGGTGCTTCTGCTTCCTGTGCTGCCAGCAACTTCTGGAAACGTCCCTGTCCCCGGTGCTGAAGTCCTGGAATCCATGCTGGGAAGTTGCACAGCCCATCTGGCTCTCAGCCAGCCTAGGAACACGAGCAGCACTTCCAGCCCAGCCCCTGCCCCACAGCAAGCCTCCCCCTCCACACTCACAGTACTGAATTGAGCTTTGGGTAGGGTGGAGAGGACCCTGTCACCGCTTTTCTTCTGGACATGGACCTCTCTGAATTGTTGGGGAGTTCCCTCCCCCTCTCCACCACCCACTCTTCCTGTGCCTCACAGCCCAGAGCATTGTTATTTCAACAGAAACACTTTAAAAAATAAACTAAAATCCGAcaggcacggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagtactttgggaggctgaggcgagaggatcacctgaggtcgggagtttgagaccagcctgaccaatatggagaaaccccagttatactaaaaatacaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcgcatgcctgtaatcctagctactaggaaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggaggtggaggttgaggtgagctgagatcacgccattgcactccagcctgggcaacaagagcaaaactccgtctcaaaaaataaataaataaataaataaataaactaaaATCTATCCATGCTTTcacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacCCTTTTTTGTGTTACTTAAAGTAGGAGAGTGTCTCTCTTTCCTGTCTCCTCACACCCACCCCCAGAAGAGACCAAAATGAAGGGTTTGGAACTCAGCCCATGGGCCCCATCCCATGCTGAGGGAACACAGCTACATCTACAACTACTGCCACAGGCTCTCTTTTTGGACAAAAATACCATCATACTGTAGATACCTGTGTACAACTTCCTATTCTCAGTGAAGTGTCTCCCCTGCATCCCTTTCAGCCAGTTCATTCAGCTCTGCGCCATTCCACAGTCTCACTGATTATTACTATGTTTCCATCATGATCCCCCCAAAAAATCATGACTTTATTTTTTTATTtttattattattatttttttttttttttttgtgacggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatctcggctcactgcaagctccacctcgcaggttcacgccattctcctccctcagcctcccgagtagctgagtagctgggactacaggcgccccccactacgcctggctaattttttctatttttaatagagacagagtttcactgcattagcgaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgcatctgcccgcctcagcctcccaatgtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccTTATGTAtttatttttttgagacagagtctcgctgtgtcgtcaggctagagtgctgtggcacgatctcggctcactgcaacctccaactccctggttcaaaggattctccagcctccacctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcgtgcaccaccacacccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttctccatgttggtcagcctggtctcgaactcccgacctcagctgatccacccgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgagcctggccAAACCATCACTTTTCATGAGCAGGGATGCACCCACTGGCACTCCTGCACCTCCCACCCTCCCCCTCGCCAAGTCCACCCCTTCCTTCCTCACCCCACATCCCCTCACCTACATTCTGCAACCACAGGGGCCTTCTCTCCCCTGTCCTTTCCCTACCCAGAGCCAAGTTTGTTTATCTGTTTACAACCAGTATTTACCTAGCAAGTCTTCCATCAGATAGCATTTGGAGAGCTGGGGGTGTCACAGTGAACCACGACCTCTAGGCCAGTGGGAGAGTCAGTCACACAAACTGTGAGTCCATGACTTGGGGCTTAGCCAGCACCCACCACCCCACGCGCCACCCCACAACCCCGGGTAGAGGAGTCTGAATCTGGAGCCGCCCCCAGCCCAGCCCCGTGCTTTTTGCGTCCTGGTGTTTGTTCCTTCCCGGTGCCTGTCACTCAAGCACACTAGTGACTATCGCCAGAGGGAAAGGGAGCTGCAGGAAGCGAGGCTGGAGAGCAGGAGGGGCTCTGCGCAGAAATTCTTTTGAGTTCCTATGGGCCAGGGCGTCCGGGTGCGCGCATTCCTCTCCGCCCCAGGATTGGGCGAAGCCCTCCGGCTCGCACTCGCTCGCCCGTGTGTTCCCCGATCCCGCTGGAGTCGATGCGCGTCCAGCGCGTGCCAGGCCGGGGCGGGGGTGCGGGCTGACTTTCTCCCTCGCTAGGGACGCTCCGGCGCCCGAAAGGAAAGGGTGGCGCTGCGCTCCGGGGTGCACGAGCCGACAGCGCCCGACCCCAACGGGCCGGCCCCGCCAGCGCCGCTACCGCCCTGCCCCCGGGCGAGCGGGATGGGCGGGAGTGGAGTGGCGGGTGGAGGGTGGAGACGTCCTggcccccgccccgcgtgcacccccaggggaggccgagcccgccgcccggccccgcgcaggccccgcccgggACTCCCCTGCGGTCCAGGCCGCGCCCCGGGCTCCGCGCCAGCCAATGAgcgccgcccggccgggcgtgcccccgcgccccAAGCATAAACCCTGGCGCGCTCGCGGGCCGGCACTCTTCTGGTCCCCACAGACTCAGAGAGAACCCACCATGGTGCTGTCTCCTGCCGACAAGACCAACGTCAAGGCCGCCTGGGGTAAGGTCGGCGCGCACGCTGGCGAGTATGGTGCGGAGGCCCTGGAGAGGTGAGGCTCCCTCCCCTGCTCCGACCCGGGCTCCTCGCCCGCCCGGACCCACAGGCCACCCTCAACCGTCCTGGCCCCGGACCCAAACCCCACCCCTCACTCTGCTTCTCCCCGCAGGATGTTCCTGTCCTTCCCCACCACCAAGACCTACTTCCCGCACTTCGACCTGAGCCACGGCTCTGCCCAGGTTAAGGGCCACGGCAAGAAGGTGGCCGACGCGCTGACCAACGCCGTGGCGCACGTGGACGACATGCCCAACGCGCTGTCCGCCCTGAGCGACCTGCACGCGCACAAGCTTCGGGTGGACCCGGTCAACTTCAAGGTGAGCGGCGGGCCGGGAGCGATCTGGGTCGAGGGGCGAGATGGCGCCTTCCTCTCAGGGCAGAGGATCACGCGGGTTGCGGGAGGTGTAGCGCAGGCGGCGGCTGCGGGCCTGGGCCGCACTGACCCTCTTCTCTGCACAGCTCCTAAGCCACTGCCTGCTGGTGACCCTGGCCGCCCACCTCCCCGCCGAGTTCACCCCTGCGGTGCACGCCTCCCTGGACAAGTTCCTGGCTTCTGTGAGCACCGTGCTGACCTCCAAATACCGTTAAGCTGGAGCCTCGGTAGCCGTTCCTCCTGCCCGCTGGGCCTCCCAACGGGCCCTCCTCCCCTCCTTGCACCGGCCCTTCCTGGTCTTTGAATAAAGTCTGAGTGGGCAGCAGCCTGTGTGTGCCTGGGTTCTCTCTATCCCGGAATGTGCCAACAATGGAGGTGTTTACCTGTCTCAGACCAAGGACCTCTCTGCAGCTGCATGGGGCTGGGGAGGGAGAACTGCAGGGAGTATGGGAGGGGAAGCTGAGGTGGGCCTGCTCAAGAGAAGGTGCTGAACCATCCCCTGTCCTGAGAGGTGCCAGGCCTGCAGGCAGTGGCTCAGAAGCTGGGGAGGAGAGAGGCATCCAGGGTTCTACTCAGGGAGTCCCAGCATCGCCACCCTCCTTTGAAATCTCCCTGGTTGAACCCAGTTAACATACGCTCTCCATcaaaacaaaacgaaacaaaacaaaCTAGCAAAATAGGCTGTCCCCAGTGCAAGTGCAGGTGCCAGAACATTTCTCTCATTCCCACCCCTTCCTGCCAGAGGGTAGGTGGCTGGAGTGAGGGTGCTGGCCCTACTCACACTTCCTGTGTCACGGTGACCCTCTGAGAGCAGCCCAGTCAGTGGGGAAGGAGGAAGGGGCTGGGATGCTCACAGCCGGCAGCCCACACCTGGGGAGACTCTTCAGCAGAGCACCTTGCGGCCTTACTCCTGCACGTCTCCTGCAGTTTGTAAGGTGCATTCAGAACTCACTGTGTGCCCAGCCCTGAGCTCCCAGCTAATTGCCCCACCCAGGGCCTCTGGGACCTCCTGGTCTTCTGCTTCCTGTGCTGCCAGCAACTTCTGGAAACGTCCCTGTCCCCGGTGCTGAAGTCCTGGAATCCATGCTGGGAAGTTGCACAGCCCATCTGGCTCTCAGCCAGCCTAGGAACATGAGCAGCACTTCCAACCCAGTCCCTGCCCCACAGCAAGCCTCCCCCTCCACACTCACAGTACTGGATTGAGCTTTGGGGAGGGTGGAGAGGACCCTGTCACTGCTTTCCTTCTGGACATGGACCTCTCTGAATTGTTGGGGAGTTCCCTCCCCTCTCCACCACCCGCTCTTCCTGCGCCTCACAGCCCAGAGCATTGTTATTTCAGCAGAAACACTTTAAAAAATAAACTAAAATCCGAcaggcacggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggaggatcacctgaggtcgggagtttgagaccaccctgatcaacatgtagaaaccccatctatactaaaaatacaaaatcagccgggcatggtggcccatgcctgtaaacccacctactccggaggctgaggcaggagaatcattttaaccaaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctaagatcacaccattgcactccagcctggaaaacaacagcgaaactccgcctcaaaaaaaaaaaaGCCCCCACATCTTATCTTTTTTTTTTCCTTCAGGCTGTGGGCAGAGTCAGAAGAGGGTGGCAGACAGGGAGGGGAAATGAGAAGATCCAACGGGGGAAGCATTGCTAAGCTGGTCGGAGCTACTTCCTTCTCTGCCCAAGGCAGCTTACCCTGGCTTGCTCCTGGACACCCAGGGCAGGGCCTGAGTAAGGGCCTGGGGAGACAGGGCAGGGAGCAGGCTGAAGGGTGCTGACCTGATGCACTCCTCAAAGCAAGATCTTCTGCCAGACCCCCAGGAAATGACTTATCAGTGATTTCTCAGGCTGTTTTCTCCTCAGTACCATCCCCCCAAAAAACATCACTTTTCATGCACAGGGATGCACCCACTGGCACTCCTGCACCTCCCACCCTTCCCCAGAAGTCCACCCCTTCCTTCCTCACCCTGCAGGAGCTGGCCAGCCTCATCACCCCAACATCTCCCCACCTCCATTCTCCAACCACAGGGCCCTTGTCTCCTCTGTCCTTTCCCCTCCCCGAGCCAAGCCTCCTCCCTCCTCCACCTCCTCCACCTAATACATATCCTTAAGTCTCACCTCCTCCAGGAAGCCCTCAGACTAACCCTGGTCACCTTGAATGCCTCGTCCACACCTCCAGACTTCCTCAGGGCCTGTGATGAGGTCTGCACCTCTGTGTGTACTTGTGTGATGGTTAGAGGACTGCCTACCTCCCAGAGGAGGTTGAATGCTCCAGCCGGTTCCAGCTATTGCTTTGTTTACCTGTTTAACCAGTATTTACCTAGCAAGTCTTCCATCAGATAGCATTTGGAGAGCTGGGGGTGTCACAGTGAACCACGACCTCTAGGCCAGTGGGAGAGTCAGTCACACAAACTGTGAGTCCATGACTTGGGGCTTAGCCAGCACCCACCACCCCACGCGCCACCCCACAACCCCGGGTAGAGGAGTCTGAATCTGGAGCCGCCCCCAGCCCAGCCCCGTGCTTTTTGCGTCCTGGTGTTTATTCCTTCCCGGTGCCTGTCACTCAAGCACACTAGTGACTATCGCCAGAGGGAAAGGGAGCTGCAGGAAGCGAGGCTGGAGAGCAGGAGGGGCTCTGCGCAGAAATTCTTTTGAGTTCCTATGGGCCAGGGCGTCCGGGTGCGCGCATTCCTCTCCGCCCCAGGATTGGGCGAAGCCTCCCGGCTCGCACTCGCTCGCCCGTGTGTTCCCCGATCCCGCTGGAGTCGATGCGCGTCCAGCGCGTGCCAGGCCGGGGCGGGGGTGCGGGCTGACTTTCTCCCTCGCTAGGGACGCTCCGGCGCCCGAAAGGAAAGGGTGGCGCTGCGCTCCGGGGTGCACGAGCCGACAGCGCCCGACCCCAACGGGCCGGCCCCGCCAGCGCCGCTACCGCCCTGCCCCCGGGCGAGCGGGATGGGCGGGAGTGGAGTGGCGGGTGGAGGGTGGAGACGTCCTggcccccgccccgcgtgcacccccaggggaggccgagcccgccgcccggccccgcgcaggccccgcccgggACTCCCCTGCGGTCCAGGCCGCGCCCCGGGCTCCGCGCCAGCCAATGAgcgccgcccggccgggcgtgcccccgcgccccAAGCATAAACCCTGGCGCGCTCGCGGCCCGGCACTCTTCTGGTCCCCACAGACTCAGAGAGAACCCACCATGGTGCTGTCTCCTGCCGACAAGACCAACGTCAAGGCCGCCTGGGGTAAGGTCGGCGCGCACGCTGGCGAGTATGGTGCGGAGGCCCTGGAGAGGTGAGGCTCCCTCCCCTGCTCCGACCCGGGCTCCTCGCCCGCCCGGACCCACAGGCCACCCTCAACCGTCCTGGCCCCGGACCCAAACCCCACCCCTCACTCTGCTTCTCCCCGCAGGATGTTCCTGTCCTTCCCCACCACCAAGACCTACTTCCCGCACTTCGACCTGAGCCACGGCTCTGCCCAGGTTAAGGGCCACGGCAAGAAGGTGGCCGACGCGCTGACCAACGCCGTGGCGCACGTGGACGACATGCCCAACGCGCTGTCCGCCCTGAGCGACCTGCACGCGCACAAGCTTCGGGTGGACCCGGTCAACTTCAAGGTGAGCGGCGGGCCGGGAGCGATCTGGGTCGAGGGGCGAGATGGCGCCTTCCTCGCAGGGCAGAGGATCACGCGGGTTGCGGGAGGTGTAGCGCAGGCGGCGGCTGCGGGCCTGGGCCCTCGGCCCCACTGACCCTCTTCTCTGCACAGCTCCTAAGCCACTGCCTGCTGGTGACCCTGGCCGCCCACCTCCCCGCCGAGTTCACCCCTGCGGTGCACGCCTCCCTGGACAAGTTCCTGGCTTCTGTGAGCACCGTGCTGACCTCCAAATACCGTTAAGCTGGAGCCTCGGTGGCCATGCTTCTTGCCCCTTGGGCCTCCCCCCAGCCCCTCCTCCCCTTCCTGCACCCGTACCCCCGTGGTCTTTGAATAAAGTCTGAGTGGGCGGCAGCCTGTGTGTGCCTGAGTTTTTTCCCTCAGCAAACGTGCCAGGCATGGGCGTGGACAGCAGCTGGGACACACATGGCTAGAACCTCTCTGCAGCTGGATAGGGTAGGAAAAGGCAGGGGCGGGAGGAGGGGATGGAGGAGGGAAAGTGGAGCCACCGCGAAGTCCAGCTGGAAAAACGCTGGACCCTAGAGTGCTTTGAGGATGCATTTGCTCTTTCCCGAGTTTTATTCCCAGACTTTTCAGATTCAATGCAGGTTTGCTGAAATAATGAATTTATCCATCTTTACGTTTCTGGGCACTCTTGTGCCAAGAACTGGCTGGCTTTCTGCCTGGGACGTCACTGGTTTCCCAGAGGTCCTCCCACATATGGGTGGTGGGTAGGTCAGAGAAGTCCCACTCCAGCATGGCTGCATTGATCCCCCATCGTTCCCACTAGTCTCCGTAAAACCTCCCAGATACAGGCACAGTCTAGATGAAATCAGGGGTGCGGGGTGCAACTGCAGGCCCCAGGCAATTCAATAGGGGCTCTACTTTCACCCCCAGGTCACCCCAGAATGCTCACACACCAGACACTGACGCCCTGGGGCTGTCAAGATCAGGCGTTTGTCTCTgggcccagctcagggcccagctcagCACCCACTCAGCTCCCCTGAGGCTGGGGAGCCTGTCCCATTGCGACTGGAGAGGAGAGCGGGGCCACAGAGGCCTGGCTAGAAGGTCCCTTCTCCCTGGTGTGTGTTTTCTCTCTGCTGAGCAGGCTTGCAGTGCCTGGGGTATCAGAGGGAGGGTTCCCGGAGCTGGTAGCCATAAAGCCCTGGCCCTCAACTGATAGGAATATCTTTTATTCCCTGAGCCCATGAATCACCCTTGGTAAACACCTATGGCAGGCCCTCTGCCTGCGTTTGTGATGTCCTTCCCGCAGCCTGTGGGTACAGTATCAACTGTCAGGAAGACGGTGTCTTCGTTATTTCATCAGGAAGAATGGAGGTCTGACCTAAAGGTAGAAATATGTCAAATGTACAGCAGAGggctggttggagtgcagcgctttttacaattaattgatcagaaccagttataaatttatcatttccttctccactcctgctgcttcagttgactaagcctAAGAAAAAATTATAAAAATTggccgggcgcggtggctcacacctgtaattgcagcactttgccaggcttaggcaggtggatcacctgaagtcaggggttcgagaccagcctagccaacatagtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaagacaaaaattgtccaggtgtgatgactcatgcctgtaaacctggcactttgggaggcggaggttgtagtgagtcaagatcgcgccatcgcactccagcttgggcaacaagagcgaaactctgtctcaaaaaaaaatttaatctaatttaatttaatttaaAAATTAGCACGGTggttgggcacagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaagccaaggtgggcagatcacaaggtcaggaattcgagaccagcctggccaatatggggaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggtgtggtggcgcacgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggttgaggtaggagaatcacttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgacccgagatcacaccattgcactctagcctgggcaacaagagcaaaactccatctcaaaaaaaattataaaaaTtatacatcagtagatgaatgggtaaacaaaatgtggtggtctatacacacaatggaatattatttggccacaaaaagaaatgaagcactgataggatgtagctgcaccctgaaaatatttgacaagtaaaagaagccggacaccaaaggtcacaaactgcatgaccccatctatatgcaatatccgctacagccaaatccatagggaccaaaagcggattagtggctgccggggccagagttactgttaatgagtaccgaggtggcgtttgggatgatgaaaaagttctgacctagatagtggtgatggctgcataacactaagtgttcttaatatcaccaaattttatacctgaaaaatggctacaatggtaatttatgtctattttatcaccttttttaaaaCAAAAAAGATATAAGGGGTACAGCAGAGTGAGTGCTGCATATGCATTTACTATTATTCTTGGGTTACATCCCAGGTACTCAATAAATGTTCACTGCCCTGAAGAAACACCTGCTACGAgtcaggcacctcacagttgttatccgtttaattctcacaatctgagaagaaactgtcaccctcattttatataataaatgagaaaacagactcgggcaagtGTCACAATAGAATCAAGAGGCAGAATAAACTGACTTCCAATGCCAAATCCATGCCGAAATTCAGTGCTATAATAATGTACATggccgggcgcggtggttcacgcctgtaatcccagaactttgggaggctgaggcgggaggatcacctgaggtcgggagtttgagatcagcctaacacggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaattggcatggtggcatgcacctgtgatcccagttactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgtttgaacccgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccggaatggcgccactgcactcaccgcacccggccaatttttgtgtttttagtagagacTAAATACCATATAGTGAACACCTAAGACGGGGGGCCTTGGATCCAGGGCGATTCAGAGGGCCCCGGTCGGAGCTGTCGGAGATTGAGCGCGCGCGGTCCCGGGATCTCCGACGAGGCCCTGGACCCCCGGGCGGCGAAGCTGCGGCGCGGCGCCCCCTGGAGGCCGCGGGACCCCTGGCCGGTCCGCGCAGGCGCAGCGGGGTCGCAGGGCGCGGCGGGTTCCAGCGCGGGGATGGCGCTGTCCGCGGAGGACCGGGCGCTGGTGCGCGCCCTGTGGAAGAAGCTGGGCAGCAACGTCGGCGTCTACACGACAGAGGCCCTGGAAAGGTGCGGCAGGCTGGGCGCCCCCGCCCCCAGGGGCCCTCCCTCCCCAAGCCCCCCGGACGCGCCTCACCCACGTTCCTCTCGCAGGACCTTCCTGGCTTTCCCCGCCACGAAGACCTACTTCTCCCACCTGGACCTGAGCCCCGGCTCCTCACAAGTCAGAGCCCACGGCCAGAAGGTGGCGGACGCGCTGAGCCTCGCCGTGGAGCGCCTGGACGACCTACCCCACGCGCTGTCCGCGCTGAGCCACCTGCACGCGTGCCAGCTGCGAGTGGACCCGGCCAGCTTCCAGGTGAGCGGCTGCCGTGCTGGGCCCCTGTCCCCGGGAGGGCCCCGGCGGGGTGGGTGCGGGGGGCGTGCGGGGCGGGTGCAGGCGAGTGAGCCTTGAGCGCTCGCCGCAGCTCCTGGGCCACTGCCTGCTGGTAACCCTCGCCCGGCACTACCCCGGAGACTTCAGCCCCGCGCTGCAGGCGTCGCTGGACAAGTTCCTGAGCCACGTTATCTCGGCGCTGGTTTCCGAGTACCGCTGAACTGTGGGTGGGTGGCCGCGGGATCCCCAGGCGACCTTCCCCGTGTTTGAGTAAAGCCTCTCCCAGGAGCAGCCTTCTTGCCGTGCTCTCTCGAGGTCAGGACGCGAGAGGAAGGCGCCGCCCCTCCCCAAGGAAAGGCGAGGGCCTGGGGCACACCCCCAGTGCCCAGATCCAGGCGCGCCTCTTTCCACCTCCAGCAGGTTTGGGGCCTCGGCCATGGGGGCACCGAACTGCGTGCAGCCTGACCCTCCCGAATGGGGTGGTAGGTGAgggccgcgggacgccccgggcggcgggcTGCGAGGACGGCCGACTCTGCCCATCCCGAGGGCGGCTGGCTTCGCCCTCCCCACTCTGCGCCGAGCACGCGGCCCGGACCCACCGCGAGAACTCCGCACCTGCAGCGTGAACGCACGCGGGCGGCGTTAAGGGCCCGGGGCTGACTCGGAGCAGGTTAGGGAACAGCGCCCCCTCCCGGCGCGAGCCGGTACCTGCGCAGCACCCAGCCGCCGCGGCTGTGGCCTGGAATCGGGGACCTGGGGTGCCGGGGGGTTGTGGTGAAGGAGGTGGGACCAGCCCCAGCACCTAGCCACGTAGCTGGCGAGGTGGACCAGGAACCGACCCAGACCCCTGCCGTCACCCGACATCACTACGGAGAGTGAAGCTTTTTTATATTTGTCCACATAAAACCAATCATGGTCATTGTAGAACTTCCGAAAACAAGGCTTGCTGCACCTTCCTGTGTATCCCAGGTCCAGGAATGGGTGCAGCACATCCTTCAGCTGCCGCTTGACACGCGGCAAACTGTGTCATGTGTAAACAAGAACAGGACATGGCTGTCATATCCAAGAGCACATGTGTAACACAGACATGCcacacacacacacacacacacacGGGGTAGAGGCAGGCCTCATCCACACCCCTAACATTTGATGCGTAGCTGTTCCAGTCTTCTAGGCACATGTAGAGATGCTTTTCCTCAGAAATGGTATTCTCAAGGTGACACTGAGGAAAAGTGGACAggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactccgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacactgtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaatagctgggggtggtggcgggcgcctgcattcccagctactcgggaggctgcggcaggagaatggcgtgaaccccggagcggagcctgcagtgagccaagattgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagactccgtctcagaaaaaataaaaataaaaataaaaattagctgggtgtggtgccgggcgcctgtaatcccaacttcaggaggctgaggcaggaggatggcttgaacccgggaggcggaggttgcggtgagccgagatcacaccattgcactccagcctgagcgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaGGAGGGGGCGGGGGGAAGAGCCAGAGAAAATATTTGCTACATGTGGCAGATAAAGGTTATTATCTCTACTACATTAGATCTCCGggcggggcatggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaagcagaggccggtagatcacctgaggtcaggagtttaagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccgtttctactaaaaatataaaaactaactgggtgtggtggtgcatgcctgtactcccagctactcgggaggctgagacaggagaatcacttgaaccagagtcggaggttggagtgagctgagattgcaccactgcactccagctttgcgacagagcgagactgtctcaaacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaagaaaaaATCTGGCCCCTAGCCCACCCGTGAGCCCCCTCTTGGATCCACGTTCTAGTTTCTATCCTTGGGGTAGCTCGAGTCAGTCTCACCTCAATCATCCTGTGTGCTCCCAGAGCACAGGACCTGCGGCTGCTGCAACTTCGCGCACAGGAGCAAGCACTTGGAGCCCAGGAGGCTCAGGGGCCCTGAGGAAGCACCAGGCTCTCAGACTCCTGTAACTAGGTGTGGACACCCTCCTGGGATTACATCTGGAGCATCACTGAAGGTGGAAGAGCCAGACCGCATCCTCCCTGGAGATGTGGAGGTTGGAGGGAGCTGGCCCTGGCTCAAGGGCTCAGCCCACTTGGTACAGAACCTACCCAGAGGTGCAGATCCAAGGGAGCAGGGGGAGCAGCTGTGGGCCCTCCACACTGTTGGGGAGACTCATGCCCACTCAAGTCCAGGGGAATTTGCACTCTGCCttttttttttttttttttttttgagatggagtcttgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcaatctcaactcgctgcaatctccacctcccgggttcaagcgaatctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggtgcctgccacgcctggctcatttttatatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggccaggatggtctcaatttcttaaccttgtgatccacctgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattgcagatgtaagccaccgcgcctggccATACTCTGCCTTTTCAAAGCCACTCCTACACAggtggtggtgaaggctgcacaacaatgtagatacacgtcgtgccactgaactgtacactgaaaaactgttataacggcacgttttgtgtgcactttactataataaaaaaTGTTCCATCCTggctgggcgcggtggctcacgcctataatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggcaaatcataaggtcacgagattgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgcaaccccgtctctactaaaaaaaacacacaaaaaattggccgggcgtgatagcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctattcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaaccagggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagtttgcgccactgcattctagcctgggtgacaaaagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTTCCATCCTGGCCAACGTGGTTCTGGCTCCAGGCTGCCACCCCTCCCCCAAAGGATGCCACCCCAGATAGGGGTCCTCGGCCTGCTCCAGCACCTGCCTGTCCCATGACGGCTGCACACTGGGGTAGGAAACGGCCTCCGCATCCTCCTCTCCTCCCCCCAGGACTACCCTTAACCCACTCAGGGCTTCGGTCAAGGCCCATGCGCTCCCCAAGCCCAAGGTAACCCTGTGCAGGAGGCAAAGGTGGTACAAGGCACAGCCCATCCAGCTAGTTTGGCGCCGACAGCACCCACCAAACAGAGCCATTTACCTTTAAAAAAATCACTgccagctgtggtgacacacctgtaatcctagtgctttgagaggctgaggtgggaagactgcttgagcccaggagttcccaagaatatcctgagcaacatagtgagacctgtctccacaaaaacataaaaaattagccaagtgtggtagtgcacacctatgtcccagttacttggaggctggggcaggaggatcacttaagtccaggagttcaaggctgcagtaagccatgactacaacactgcactccagcatgggtgacaaagcaagcatcgtctcaaaaaaaataaataaataaTTTTggccaggtgccgtggcttacgcctgtgatcccagcactttgggaggtcaaggcgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagtccaagaccagcctggccaagatggtgaaacgttgtctctactaaaaatacaacaattagccgggcatggtggcgggcccctgtattcccagctagtcgggaggctgaggcagagggtgcagtgagccgagactgcatcaccgcgctctagcctaggagacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTTTTTTTTTAATCGCCAAATGTTCTGGAGAGGCCCCCTTCTCTTCTGTTCTCCTGCAGTCTGGGCTGCAGGCCAAGGTGGTCCCTGTGGGTGGAGACAAGGGCCGGTTCCACCTGACACTACAGACCCCTTCACATGGGAGGGATACACTTCCAGACCCATATATCTCCGAGTAGCCATCTTTGGCGAGATTTACTGGTACTGCAGTGGAAAGGAAGGACTCGCTGTACTGGGTGAAAAAAGTGAAAACATGGGACTCCTATCGCAGACTCTGACAGCAGAACCTGGTGTGGGTTATTTGGGAGGAGGGAGGGAGGAGGGAGAAAGGAAGAGCTGTTGTGGGTGCTATCAGCGAAACTGCACCGGGGGCATGAAGCTCAGTTTGGTCAGCACCACCTGGCAGGTGTACCAAAAGCCCACCCGACTGTCCCTGCACGGTAGAGAGGCAGGAGCGCCTCTCCCTGCACGGATGGTGCCCCGGAGGCTACCAGGGGCGGCCGAGGACACTGATGCTGCATCCCAGGAGGACCTGTCCTTCAGCTGTAATCAGCAGACACGGGGGACAGGATGGCCAGGGGCACAGCACCTTTTCTGTAAACCCCACACCCTGACCCCCCCCACCCAAAAAAGCAAAAAACAACTATTTGTCTACACATACAATTTTATGCCCAGATGGAAAAAGATCCAAATGATTCACAGTGGTGATGGCTCTGAGGGTGACGCTGTCTGCTTAAGGCCCAGGGAAACCCAGGTGCAAACTCACACTCATCACCCAGGCAGCCACAGCCATGAACACAACGTGGGCTTGGGAACAGGGAGCCCAGACCCAACCACTCCCTCCTAGAAGACGAAGAGGAAAGCACATGTGCTGAACAAGTACCCTGAGTCCCACCTGCAGGAAAAGGTGCAGGTAAGGAATACGGACACGGGAGGAATACGGACACGGAGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAACAGCGACACGGGGGGAATACCAACACGGGAGGAACAGCAACACGCAGGGAATATCGACATGGGTGATGCCTGCAAAGCACAGCATCAATCCCAAGTGACTCCTGTACAGGGCGGCCCCTTCCACCCTCCTTTCCTTGGAGACAGTTGGCTGGGCTAGACCTGTGTCACGGGCTGGCAGAGCAGCCCACCTACCCATCTGTCCTCCTGGAGGGGACAGCCTGTGGCAGGAGAGCCCAGAGCAAGGCCACCAGCTACACTGTGATACCGGTGGCAGAAAGACCCAGACCACAGCGCCCGTGTGCGCCCACTGAGCCAGCCAGCTCAAGGGTGGCATGTGTACCCCTGCAGAAACAGAGCGGATGAGGATGGCTATGTGTTAACAATGTGAACCTCAGGAATTCCCTCCAAAAAATCTCCCACGAAGTGAAAAAGGGAAGGAGCTCCCATCATCTACACATTAGTTAGCAGTTATCCTTTTCAGAAGGGCTTCATTTTGGGTTTTTGGGGGGttttttgagacagagtcttgctgtcgtccaggctggatgcaatctcggttcactgcaacctctggctcccgggttcaaacgattctcctgtctcagcctcccaagtagctgtgattacaggtgtccgccaccacacccagctaatttttgtatattggtagagacagggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggttatctgcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaagcgtgagccaccgcgtccCCCTTTACTTTGGTCTTAAAGTACCTGCCTGATGTACAGCAGGTATGTTAGAAAGAACTGAAAGGTGTTggccaggagcggtggnntcacgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggcagatcccgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacaaggtgaaaccccgtttctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcaaggtggcaggcacctgtagtcccagctactctggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacctgggaggcggaagttgcggtgagctgagatcacgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagattccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaCGAACTGAGAGGTGGGAAACATAATCAGCCCACATGGGACATGAGTCAAACCAttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttgagatagggctttcttgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcggaatcaaggtttgcctcagtgtcctgtgctcaacagatcctcctgcctcagccttcttagtagtagctgggactacaggcatgtgtcaccatgcccagcCCCATGGGTCTTTGTTTTCTGCTAGTAACTTCAAAAGGGGACATGCAGTGTAACTCACCTGAGTCCCAAGTTAAGGCTATGGTAGCAGCTGAGCAGACAAGACAGCTTTTCCTAAATAAATGAATGCAGAATGGGGACCCCTCCCTCCTCCCCATGGGAGATGGGCAGCTCAGACACTCAGAAGGTTGTGTGGGAGCGAGCAAACAAACACCCATGCACACCTGGGTCCCGTCAGTCAGATGCAGGGGACAGGAAGTGCCCTGCCATCTACTGGATGCCAGAAGACAAGACGTGACCCACGAGTAAGTCACGGTTTCTGTGAGGTGCTGGTGGCACTGGCACAGGGTCACAGTGAAAAGCCTCTACGCAGAGGACAGCAGAAACCCCCCGCAGCCTCAGGAGGCAGCATCAGATTTATTTATTCCTACTCAACATGACCCGGGAACACAGGAGCAACTCTGTACACTTCTAGAAACTCACAGCTAGCTCCAAAACAATAGAAATTTTAAACTACAAAAGATGAGTTGTATTCAGCAAATATAAAGGGTAATTTTAGACTGTGTGAACGTTTATCAGACTATTTACAGCACCCGGGAGACGGGTTCAGATCTCGCCGGCCTCCTTCTCTTCTGACCTCCGTGAAGCCATCTTCCCGTTGGAGCTCTCAAGCCTCCAGTCCGGGGGCCCTCGCTCGCTCCGCCCGCTCTCCCAGGACTCCTCTCTGGATGCCCGCTCTCTGGAGAACCTGGGAAATGGGAACCAGAGGCTCAGTGGAGGCTGCTGCCCCCCTTCTGCTGGCCGCTCAGGCACTGACGATGGACCCGCAGACCAGGCCAGGCAAGGCCCTACATCCCCTATACCTGGAAACCCCCCGGAGGCCAACCAGACTTGCCCAccacatatggagtgttagatagccattaaaaagtgacctttgcgaagatttttaataaggagagccttcactgtaacataaacagtgcaaaggagaatacaacactatatgcacagAACATGACACTACGTAAAAACACAATGGAAAAAAAAATATCAAAAACAAAAACCAAAACAGAGGTAAGCAGGGCCTGGTCAGGACACAAGTCTCAGCCACTCTGAGCATGGACGCAACAGTGCACAGGCCCCAGGACGCAGGCAGGGGACAGTGCCTGTGCAGCCCATCACCTGGCGCCGTGCGAGCTCCTCCACAGCCCTCTCGCCTCTTCCCACACCTGAGTCCCGTTCACGACTCCCCAGCCCTACTCCTGAGGGTGAGCCCAGCCCCATCCCCACCAGACACGGCCCTCAGCAGACCCTGGGAACACAGAGAAGGGCTCACTCCTGGTTGCAGCTACCGAAGGAGTCAGAGTAGTTACTTGTATTTCGCACTTCGGTCCCGGGAAGCCCGACGATGTCCCCGGCTGTGGCTCCGGGAACGGCTGCGGTGGCGCCGATGTCTATCTCGGGACCGGGACCGGGACAATTTCCGTCGCTCTCGGGAGGTAGATCTTGACCGCCTCCGACGCCGATCCCGGGAGCGTGACCTGAACAATCAGAAGGCTCCAAGGCTGAGACTCTATAGGTGCCAACACTATGAGGGCCCCACCCCTCAGCAGATTCTGCTTGCTGCTTTACTGACATTTTCTCCTTTACTCCCACAAATTTAGGTTTAAAATATTTCCATCAGTTAATCTCCAATGGCTAGGTCCTTCCAATGAGGTCTCCTGAAAACATGTGGCCTGGATACTCCTGTCACCCTGCAGGCCCCGACCTTCCCTCTCATTAACACTGGGAACCCTCCACGGCACCAAGCAACCTCTTGCCCTGTGCCCTTCACAAGCCAGCCCTACCTGCCAGGTAACATTTGTAAAGGCATAATCATTAAATATTAAGAAAAATGCTTATGGAAAAAAAAATTTGAGAACATTTTAATGGACCTGGAAACCTACCTCCTGCGATCTCTGGTTCTTGATCCCGACCTAAAAGGGGGAAAAAAAGATGAACAAggccaggcatggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcacttcggggaggcctaggcaggcaatcacctgaggtcacgagctggagaccagcctggacaacgtggtgaaaccccgtctctactgagaacacaaaacctggccaggcgtggtggcgggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggagactgaggcaggaaaatcactttaacctaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagattgtgccactgcactccagcctgggcaacaagaataaaactttgtctcaaaaagaaaaaaaaaaaGTGAATGACTTCCCGAAAGCACCCCTATTCCTCACCCTCTTGGGGGAGGACTCCAAATTTAAGAAGTGAGGCACCTCCCCCAAAGACCTGCTGTTTTCAAGCTGCCTGCATGTTCCCAGTCTGAATGGGAAGTGCCAATGCTCCCATCCCCACAGCCACTCTGTGGCACACTCAGTGTCACCTGAGCCTCACAGACAGGCCCACATCCGAGCATCAGACGCAGCCCTGTAACATTACAAGGGCCGTGAAAAGTCTGTGCACACTGACTGTGCTGCACTCAAGTCCTACAAATGATTCTCCAGTCTTTACAACAGACACCAGCACAGAATGTGCAGACAGCGAGTGGGGCACACCAAAAACACAGAAAAGGAAAAGCAAAGCCCGAAGTTCCAGGCACAGGCTTCCTGTCAGGTGAGAGTCATCAGCTCATTCTGCCACACAACCAAGAGGCTGAAAAAGGCAAGCTATGAGGCCTCATTCTATGCCCGTAAGCCATTAAGGTCAAGTGGCCCCATGTACATCCGCAACACAAATGGCCTAAACATGACAGTGCATGTAAAAATGTAAACTCCATGCAAAAAATGGATTGTGTGTTTTGCTTAATATTTTCTTCTATACTGTTTAAGTTTCTCTCCAATCAGAATCTCCTGCTGGTAAAACAACAAACggccgggcgtggtggctcacgcttgtaatcccagcactctgggaggctgaggcaggcagatcatgaggtcaacagatcgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccctgtctctattaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcgtgatggcacaggcctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggcagaggcaggagactcgcttgaacccagggggtggaggctgcagtgagccgatatcgcaccactgcactccagcctggtgacagagcgagaccctgtctcaaaaacaaacacaataaaCATTCGCCCTGAGTTATGCACTGAGGAATTATTTCAGGAAAAGTGGTTTGGGAACCTTCCTGGACAATGAGCTGTCTCCAGGAGGATGTGGatacttctggctcctacctctttgaactccaaacagactcaacagccccacctcaagatggcctctcaagctgagtgtggccagaggcatcttctacttcccacctcctcccactccaatacaccacacccagccttccaacctcaccaagcagcaactccgggccagaaaccaggagaccagcttcatttcctcctctgcacgcttcacacactaccagcaaatcccatcagttctatcccagaactttccccgactccttgcaccccttacctggcttaaactgccacctcctccatctggattttcccacctagctccccaaggtcctgctgcttctactccagcccAGCACGCTTGCCAAAGGGGAGCAGGCACCACCCCTCCTGCGTAAACAGGTGTCCAATGGCCCCATAGCACTCAGTAAGTAAACAGCAGTGCCCACACACAGCCTCCAACAGCTTGGATCCCTTACCTGACTGCCATGCACACACAGTCCTGCGCTGGGACGTGTTTTGTTTTGTTTTGTTGGACTGAATATGCTGtttactttttttttttttttttttggttgagatggagtctctgttgcccaggctagagtgcagtggcacgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggctcaagtgattctcccacctcagcctccgagtagctaggattacaggctcatgccagcacgcccagctaatttctgtatttttagtagagacaaggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaacccctgacctcaagtgttctgcccgcctcagcctcccaaactgacaggattacaggcgtgagccgccaggcctggccTTACTATTTTCTTTTATAACGGCCTATTGGGCAGGCCCTGCCTATTCCAAGCAACAGTGGAATGGACCGAGCAGGGAATGCCCGAGGCCAATGCAGGCCATCCAGTGCCAGCCCTCAGGCTCACCTCCTGCTCAGACGCTCCTCCCGTTCCCTCTCCTCTCTCCTCCTCAAGCGATCCTGATTTCTCTTCTCCTGCTTTTCAGCGACAGTTTTCTAAATAAATGAAACAAAAAATGAGGAAGAGCAAGTTACACAAACCAGAGTGTGAATGCTACTTAACAAATCACCTTTATATGAGCTCAGTATTGGTAATTTAAAAATTGAAGGGACACTTTTAGGAAATGGGAATACttttttttttctctttgaaacggtgtctcactgtcaccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcggctcactgcaacttccacctcgagttcaacctattcttctgcctcggcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcacatgccaccacacccaactaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggatggtcttgatctcttgaccttgtgacccgcctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcgcccggccAACACATTCATTTTTAAAACTTCTTAATGAAGAAGATAACACATGAAAAAATGCTTTATCATTACAtttttttttcctgagacagagtccgccctgttgcccagtgcagtggcgcgatctttgctcactgaagcctctgcctcctgggttcaagcgattcttctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaagcgtgccagcacggccggctaatttttgtatgtttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggtctggcttgtcgcaaactcctaaccttgtgatatgcctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgcagcaattacaggcgtgaggcactgcacccggccTCGTTTACAtttactttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcaatctcggctcgccgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgtcctggcctccggagtagctgggattacaggcgcccggcactgcgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacagagtttcaccatgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcacgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccacagtgctgggattataggcatgagccaccgcgcttggccACttttttttttttgaaacagggtcttgctctgtccacccaggctggatggagtgcagtggcgcaatcacagctcaccggagccttgacctcccaggctcaagcaagcctctttagctccgcctcctgagtagctgggactataggcgtgtgccaccatggcagactaatctttaaacattttttatggagatggaatcttgctatgttgcccaggctgagcttgaactcctcaactcaagcaatcctcctgccttggcctcccaaagtgctggggttacaggcctgaaccaccCAGCCTATCATTAGATTTTAACAATGTGGTAACAAACTGTCTATTCTAAGTGGTGCTATACTTCTAACTCACAGGGAATTGATCACATTGTTTCAAACCAACCCAGATAGGTAGGAGACTGTACAAACTTTATGGTAAAAAAGGACGGATGTATCTCATCAAACACATCTTGCTACTGGGAGCAGAATCCCTACAGCCAAAAAGCAGCCCAACCTCAGGGTGCTGGGTGCTACGCTGGCTTTAGAACAAACTGAGTTGGAGGACAGCAGGCCAGGGGAGGTGGACCACAAATCCTCTGCAACTGGCTTTCAACACAGGATGATGTGAATCATCAGGCTTGATGAAGAAAGCAATATAAGGGGATGAGAAACCTCGCCAATGAAAATACCGTCAACACAAGCTGAGTGGAAAAGCACCGGGCACCGTTCTGTATACCCACTACTCCCAATATCAACTCTAAGACATTTAATGCCCCTCATCTGTGTCAAGTGAAGCCCTGAGTGGGAGCAAGTCAGAGCCAGTAAGACAAAGAATCACGAGTCTTCTCCATCCAGAGAGCCACGATGGCATAAGGATAATCTTCCATACCCAGTGTGGATGAGAGCACGCTCCCCACAAGGGCACGGAAAGTATGCAGAGCTGGGTGACTGGTATCTCCAGCTCTAAACTTTCACCCATGCTCATCCTGTGTCTGAAGCAGGGCACACATGGATGGACACCTTTAAGGTGATGTTTAAGGATGGCATTTAagccaggtacggtggctcatgccatttcagcactctgggaggctgaactgggaggatcatgtgaggacaggagtttgagaccagcctgggaaacatagtaagacctcctacctaaaaaaaaaaaatgagccagatatggtggtgcatgcctgtagtctctgctactcaggagactcaggatgcagggccacttgagtccaggagttccaggttacagtgacaataagctatcagctaccatcacatcagtacactccaccctgggtgccagagggagaccctgtctctgaaaaaaaaaacgaaaaaaaTCctctgttgtctaggttggagtgtagtgtcgtgatcacagttcactgcagccttgagctccaaggtccaaacaatcctcttacctcagcctcctgagtagctggacctacaggcacacaccaccatgcttggctaatttttaaatttttggtagagacagggtctccttatgttgcccacgctggtctcaaactcctggattcaatcgattctcctgccttggcctcctaaagactggaattacaggcgtgagccaccacacccagccTCAAGGATGGCAGTTTTTAAaaaaattaaggattagccaggtgcagtggctcatgtgtaatcccagcactctgggaggcctaggaaggtggatacctCTGGGACTACTGTGAGTGAGGCCTCCTctaactagggcacagaactcccactctccctatcattaagaggtgcacttccaaatacattgtgcactgttactttaataattatttatcaaagtctgtaatacgagttgtgttgttttggtcaactctatgctgcaatgataaaacaagctttctaaccaagttaatgcttcttaaggtagaagggaaaaacatttcacaatattcacatttctaatgcagagatacacattaaggaaataaaagattgcagatattaaaaaaaaaatactacattagggccaagcactgtggcccacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgagacaggtggatcacctgagctcaggagttcgagatcagcctgagcaacacggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaacacaaaaatgagccaggcatggtggtgcacgcctatagtaccagctacttggagggctgaggcaggagtatctcttgaagctgggaggtggaggttacagtgagctgagttcgttacactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcaagaccctgcctcaaacaaacaaacaaacaaacaaaaaaaacccaacaactacagtaggacaaaattctgagctgtgaaatgaaaatgtaatttaaaggagaaatgggaaagtaacatttccagtggctaacaaacaatttttttttctttaagacaaagtctcactctgttgcccaggctagagtgcagtggctcgatttcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctgccaagtagctgagaatacaaatgtgtaccaccatgcccagctaatttttgtgttttcagtagagacagggttttgctatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacttaagtgatccgccctcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccatgcctggccaaaagcaaatttttaatagagtggtaaatgcatactaaattgtgatttataattctattggatacagatacttttacatctttttttttttttttttttgagacagagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcaatttcggctcagtgcaagctccgcctcccgggttgacaccattctcctgcctcggcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgcccaccaccatgctcggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccttgttagccaggatggtctcaatctcctgacccagtgatctgcccgcctcggcctcccaaaatgctgggattacaggaggctgagcctctgcacccagccttttttttttttttttttttttttgagacggagtcttgctctgtctcgtaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatttcagctcactgctacctctgcctcccaggtcaagcaattatcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagccaggattacaggcgcccgctgccatgcctggctaatttttgtatttttagtaaagacggggtttcactatgttggccaggctggtcttcaactcctgacctcgtgatccacctgcctcggcctcccgaagtttgggattacaggcgtgagccaccacacccagcctcacttttacatctttcatacctataaacttataaagaaaaattccaactttgacagagtacattgcttttcaaaattctctcgggaacacggaagtaaaatgtttcaagaccagtgGCCGAGAATAACCTCACTGCTGCACCAGCTCCCATCACAGTCCCAGGTTCACACCATCACCTATGGGACCCTCCTGAGGTGCACAGCCCTGCCATATGCGGCCTGAGTGAGCAGCTCTTTCCTGGGGCACAAAAGGCCCTCAGCCGTGGTCACTGCAGCATTCTGCAGTCAGCGACACGTCTGTCCCTCCACTACATTTCAGGTATACAGGGGGAGGCTGGCTAATTTCCCACCATCCTATCCTGAGGTCCTAGTATGCGGTAAGGGGGGCTCCATCAGTGTGAAGGGAGACAATTCAAAGTAGTGGAAATACGTCCAACCTTCCTTCTTAGCATTCCGTACTTAAAGTTTTTAAATGTCggccgggtgcggtggctcacgcctgtggtcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcgggcggatcgcgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggcaaacacgatgaagccccgtctctactaaaaatacaacaacaacaacaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcaggcacctgtagtcccagctactgtggaggctgaggcaggaaaatggtgtgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcagtaagccgagattgggccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTTTTTAAATGTCTTAGAGTCTTGAAGAAGGAACAGAGGTTTTCTCTGGGCTGGGATGGTACAATGCTACCAGAAAAACCCCATCTTCACCCCGCCCTTCTGAGGTGGCTCATAGGCAAGGAGCCAGGATGTGTGACACTCTGTCTTGACCAACCAGAGATTCTTTCTCATCTCCTAACAGAAGTTATTTCAGAGATACACAACGAGCTGTATGTATTCTGGGAACAGGCTCTGCCATTTTCTTCCCTTAACGACAGGGTCCAAAATAAATCTCCAAGGCTCCTTTGGACTCTGAGCTATCATGTCTCTTGTGTGAATCCAAGTGATGAAATCTGCGTATTTCACTATAAAACTCAAGTTCTTAGAGATCAGAACATAATGttttttgttttttttttgagatggagtcttactctatagcccaggctggaatgcaatggcatgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcctgggtttaagcaattcttctgccccagcctcccgagtacctaagattacaggctcacaccaacacacctggctaatttttcggtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggtcaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgattcgcccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattataggcatcagccaccacgcccggccAAAACATAAGGTTTTTAAAAATTAAAGAAATGTGAAAACACCCCAAGACTCCTCAGCTTTCTCCAGAAACAGATGAACATACCCTCAACTGATCAAGCTTCTCTCGGATCTGAATGAACCCCAAGTGTAACTTGCCACCGAAGTGGTCTGCCAGGCGACGGTCATTGTCATGGAGACCAAGGTAGGCTGAACAGACCTCGCAGACACGCAGCTTTTGCTGCTGAAAACTGGATGCAGGCATGGAATTTCTGTATTCTTCCTGAAGAAGGAAAATGGAGAAATAAAAGTGAGGTATATAGAACTGCCACCACAAATTCAATCTCCAAAATGAAAATATTTGATAAGATGACAGAGGTGACTTTTAAACAAATATTAAAAAAACACAAACAAAACTTCAGATATTTATAACCAACTCAATTTTCACTGTTTATTTAAGAAACGCGGCCAGGCACGGtcccagcactttgtgaggccaggtgggcggaccatgtggtcaagagatcaagaccaggccaggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggctggcggatcacctgaggtccggagttcaagatcagcctgaccaacatggagaaaccccatctctattaaaaatacaaaagtagccgggtgtggtggcgcatgcctgtaatcccagctattctggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcttgaactcgggaggcggaggttgctgttgagctgagatcgcacaggcaacaagagcaaaaccctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGagagatcgagaccatcctggccaactttgtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaatcagctgggtgtggtggcacatgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacctgggaagcggaggttgcagtgagccaaaaccgtgccactgcattccagcctggcaacagagcgagactccatcttaaaaaaaaaaGGTACTAACAggctgggctcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcattccgaggccaaggcagacagatcacttgaggccaggagttcaagacgagcctggcaacatagcaaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaggcgaatcatggggtcaggagatcacgaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaaaacagaaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccggcaggcggagcttgtagtgagccaagatcatgccactgggcgaaagagcgagactccgtctcaaaagaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagccagatggtggcaggcatctgtaattccagctactggagaggctgaggcacaaattgtttaagcccaggaggtggaggttgcagtgagctgagatcacaccactgcattccaacctggaggacagaggaaaactccaaaaaggaaaaaaaaaaaaTTGTATTCCAggcctggtgtagtgactcacacctataatctcagcactttaggagagtgaagcaagaagatcacttggccccaggagattgagatcaccctgagcaacacagcaagactcagtctctaaaaataagaaaataattagcccgctgtggtggcacgtgcctatagtcccacctactcaagagactgattcgagaggactgcttgagcccaggaggttgaaggggcagtgacctgtgactgcgccactgtacttcagcctgggtgaccctggctgacagcaggaccctctaatattaaaaaaaaTAggctgggcacagtggctaacacctgcaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcaggtggatcacaaggtcaggagtccgagaaggtgaaaccccgtctctattaaaaatacaaaaaaattagctgggcacggtggctggcacctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgagtctgagaattacttgaacccgggagtcagaggatgcagtgagccgagatcgcaccacagcaatccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactctgtctgagaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTAGACAAGGAACTAGCAAGAACTTGAATTTCCATTATAGTATGCTACATAACTaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCTTAAGCAAAAACAATATTGTGGTACACAAATATTCATAACATTACTCTGTCCCCTTCTATAGTTTTGAAACCTTAAATGCCACCTTCTAACATCTTTCAAAATAAACTCTGattatgttgagtaaaaaaagtcagtcccaaaaggttacctactgtatgattccatttacataactttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgtcgcccagcctggaatgcagtggcacgatctcagctcactacaagctctgcctcccgggtccacaccattcacctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaagcgcacgccgccacgcccggccaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggagtatcaccatgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccacccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgatgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcaccaggcttttttttttttttttttttttttgagagagagtcttgctctgtcacccatattggagtgcaatggcacgatctctgttcgctgcaacctccgccttctgggttcaagcgattctcctacttcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggtgcccgccaccacacctggctaatttttatacttttagtagaaatggggtttcaccaagttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatgcacctaccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagcaaccgtgcccggccATatttttaatttctttgtaaagatggggtatccctatgttgcccaggctggtctcaaactcctggactcaagcaatcctcctgcctcgaccttccaaagtgttgagattacaggcatgagccaccatacccACcctccataagcttttacgctgggcagaaggcagcaaaaggggagtcagcatatcacatggcaaaagaaggagtgagacagagagaaggacctaggctcctttaaacaatcagctctgaggtgaactcactatcccagggagggcaccaagccattgatgagtgaaccacccccatgacccaaacacctcccactagaccccacctccaacattggaggtcacatttcaacatgagatttggacgtgccacacatccaaaccgtatcaagtgttattttttatcttttatactgtatttttactgtaccttttctatgtttacgtacacaaatatttaggggcccactgtgttgcaactgcctatagtattcagcacagtaacatgctgtacaggtgtggagcctaggagcaatgggctctaccatacagcccacatggctataccacccaggtttgttaagcacactctataatgttctcacaatgatgaaccatggaacgcacttctcagaatatttaatccttgtcattaagaaagatatgactgTactaatatcagaaatgaaagacaggacatcattacggatccacccactttaaaggaataatacaaacaactcttaaaaacaacaactccatgcccacaaaagcgataaactagatgaaatggaccgatcccttcaaagacagccaggagcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactgtgggaggctgaggcaggtggatcacttgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctgaccgacatggtgaaaccccgtcttctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcatggtggcaggcacctgtaatctcagctgctcaggaggctgaggcaggataatcagttgaacccaggagttggaggttgcagcgagccatcgcaccaccgcactccagcctgggcaacagagagagactccgtgtaaaaaaaaagtataataatgttgaaagacacaatctgccaaaactcacacaagaagaaacagatgatctgaatgaatctgtatattaataaccttccaaaacagaaagcatcaggtccagatgggtttactggtgaattctaccaaagcattagggagcaaatcatgccaattctctacaatcgctttcagaaaatagaagcagagagagtatcttctaactccttctatggggacattaccataataccaaaaccagataaaggtattacaagaggccaggcatcatggtgactcatgactctaatcccagcactttgggaagcagagctaggcagatcgcttgagccaaggatttcaagaccagccttgacaacatggcgaaacccagtctctccaaaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcttggtggcatgtgccttcagtcctagctatttgaaaggctgaggcgggagaatcaaatgagcccaggagatcaagccttcagtgagccaagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggtgagaaagtgagaccgtctcaGGGCGGGGGGCGGGGTGGAGGTGGGGAGggctgggcgcggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgagaggccaaggcaggcggatcatgaggtcaggagatagaggccatcctggctaacacggttaaatcatatctctactaaaaacacaaaaaattagccaggtatggtggcacacgcctatagtctcagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgagcccgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcacgccactgcactccagcctgggcgaatgaatgagactccatctcaaaaaaacacaaaaacaaaaaccaaaaaaCAAATGAccaattacaccagcacccgcaagcatgaaatatttaggtagaaatctaacaaaacatgcatgagatcttcactatgagaaaaattacaagactcataaaaggtatcaaaTggcctggcgaagtggctcacgcctgtgatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcagacggatcacctgaggtcagaagtttgagaccagcttggccaacacggtgaaaccccatccctactagaaatgaaaaaaAAAAAAAAAAATTAGCCATGggccgagcatggtggctcactcctgtaatcccagcagtttgggagaccgaggcgggtggaccacgaggtcagattgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccatctctactgaaagtacaaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggtgggcgcctgtagtctcagctactctggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaaccgaggaagcggagcttgcagtgaactgagatcgcaccactgcactccagcctgggggacagagcgagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagagagaaaaTTATAAGGAAGAGAAAATAAAATACATTTATAGTACTGTGCTGTACTGATCACTTCTGTACGtttacactgctcatttacaagatgaattgtccgtctgaaatggtagcaactgcagctgcagacctcaatctaatgtatacatcaagcaactcaactttttcttgtaatatcatggctgttcttgccttcttgggagcattttcagcatcactagtggcatatggatcctatggcattactcaaagtttatggtattgcactaaacacgatgaaaaacgcctaggaaccctgtgagttcactttttactgcagtaggaatgtactggagaggtgaactgctccttcggagatgatgagtgtcacgtggtgtttcaaggggatactcacgacccttgagctccacacaatggcaacaggaagtggcatgaattattacagtagtacagtacctattacagttattcttaggcagccctgatttaatactgcacctctgcactacgtttgttaacatctctctacggcgaatgctgtcatgtatggtctgtaagcgtttgcatgtagcctcttcttttttagagacagggtcttgctatgttatccaggctggactccaaaagtcctaggattaagggatcctctcatctcagcctcccgaacagctgagactaaagccaagagccaccatagctggccatatgcttaagttttgacaaatgttaccttttcataatagacttgtgtatattttatggcagtaaataaaagactagtatcctcatatattttatgtattcatgacatacctaacattttctGCAgactttgggtgataatgacaagtcaacgtagacccactgactgtgggcagatgctaggaatggaggaggctgtctgaggagagggtacatggagaatctctgtactttcctctcaatttagctatgaagctaaaactgcttgcaaaaacagcgtttataaatttttttgagacagagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcaatctcagctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacgccattctccttcctcagcctccggagcagctgggactacaggtgcctggcgccatgcccggctaatttttttgtatttttagtagagacggggattcgctgtgttagccaggatggtcttatctcctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggccttccaaagtgctgggatgacaggcgtgagccactgtgctgggcccaaaatgtataaattttttaaaaaATGGGAGCAAGCATGGGCTCAATTAATTCCAACGGTCAACGCTGCCAAATTACTAAGATTTCTCTTGCCCTAAGGCACTTATCTCACCAACCTCAGCTTCTTTTTTCTTCGCACGAACTTTTTCCACTTCCATAAGAATCTTCTGGGATTCATCCACATTACCTTCAGCCCCTAGCTGTTCGGCTTTAGCAAGGAGTTTTCCTATTTCTTCATTTAACTCATGTACTTTTTCTGCCTGTGAGGAGAAAGAATGAGGTAAGCAGACATCTGAAAATGAAAGTGAATGCAAAGGCAACAAGGGTTTCTCCTGCTCCATTTCCAGTCTGAAAATAAGTGGAAGAGCTAAAGATCCACACTTAACAATGAAGGCATCCTTACTGCCAGCATTGAGACTGTAACCATAAACGAGTCCTATGTTCCAATGAAACCAGTGGCACCTTTGTCACTTCCGACATGCTTCCAAGGATCATCACAGATTGGTCATTGTCTAGGCTGTCTCTCTTTATGACTTTTTCTTCTGGGTATGGTAATAAAATGCCTAGGTTTAAATGTACAGATTTAAGCTGTAACCAAAATACCTAATTACTAGGATTTACCTTCTGAAACAAAATAGCACCGTTGGTCAAATTAGCAATTGCATAAATCCTAAGAAATGCTTTTACAACACTGAAAAGAAAAAACAAGGAGAGGCTTAGTTCCACTGAAGAGAAAAACAGAAGAGTGATGTAAATGGCACTCAGTCTAATTACATATAAATCTACCTCCTTTTCattctatgatatggatgtaccacagtttgaccattTCCTTACCAATTCTTTCCAGTTTTATGTGGAGATATTAAAGTTTAAAACAACATGCAGAggctgggcatgctggctcacacctgtaatcccagcacttcgggaggacaaggcgggaggattgcttaagcccaagagttccagaccagcttgggcaacagactccatctttattaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaAAAAAAAAAGATggctgggtgcagtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagtactttgggaaaacgaggcgggcagatcacgaggtcaagagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggtgggcacctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtaaacccaggaggcggagcttgcagtgagtcgagatcacgccactgccctccagcctgggcgacagaacaagactctgtctcttaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCCGACAATAAtttttttttcttttgaggcagggtctcactctgttatccaggctgaagcaaagtagcatgatcacagctcattgaagcctcaatctccccaagctcaagtgatcctcccacctcagcctcctgagtaactgggatacacatgtgcaccaccaagcctggctaatatatgtattttttgtagagatggggtttcttcatgttgctcaggtctaaaactcctgggctcaagcagtctgcccccaccttggtgtcccaaagtgctgggactacaagcataagccaccAAACTCAGCGAAGaatatattaaaattaaaaaataatGATAAACCATGTACAGAGGACGAAAATGGAGAGAATAAAAAGACAGAGGTAGCAGCTCCTGAGGGATGAGAATTCCATGACACATGAATGCTTGATCACAGCCCTCTATCCTTAACTGGAGTAAGGCAGAGAGTACTGTCCACACAATCAGTGCTGAGGGTCAGTTAATAGCTATTGACAACgccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaggcagatcacgaggtcaggagatcaagaccataccggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcatggtggcgggcgtctgcagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcactgagctgagatcatgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagggagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaGCTATTGACAAGCCAGTATTTTTAAGAACACACCAGACACCGAAGCCACCCAAGCATACCTTTGCAGAAACTTCCGCACTGATTTCCTCCTGTGTTTCTGCCAGCCGCTTCTTGGCGAGCTCAGTTCTCCGATCACATTCAGCAATAAAGGACTCCAAGTGATCCATTGCCTAGCACGGGAAAAGCACAGCGCTATAATCAATGATGTGTAAAGCGTAAAGTCTTAGAACCCATTTGCTTGATAGGAAATACACTCCTAGGTTCGTTTCTTTAAAGCCTGTACATTCAAGGGAAAGATCTTAAACTACACTACCACTAACGCATTCATAATTGCATTAAATCAAGGGGATCTGTTAAACAGAATGATTGTTTGGAAGCATGGTCTTCTCATTTGATTTACTTATTTCCAAAATTTGTAAAAGGACCTCCAACCCTCAATAACATTACAAAGAAATTCTGAGGAAAATTAAAACACTTGGCAGCAATTCATAGAGTTCTCGGAGGGACAGAAAAGGCTGAGCCTAGACTCGTGCTGGAGGCCCTCTTCTGGGGAGTTGTGAGAGATGCATATGATGTACTCACTGGTCTTTGTGAGCCACGTAAATATTATTCCCTCATGTTCTGAGGGTAGGGTCCCCCCTTTCACCTCAAAAACAAAACAATAGAACAAATATTACTGAGAGCTATGAATACATTTTGTTATTGCCTACTATCTAAAGTAGCAGGAAAAATTGGTTGCTATTTACCCAAAGAGATAAAGGAAAAGAAGCTGTAGACGTCAAATTGCTTACTCTGAAAAGGGTGGTGGGAAACATTAAGAGAACTATCATATGCTAAGGTTAATTCACCATAACTAGGCAAAGGCTAACATAATTTCAGATAAAAACAGAGACAGgaccggacgcagtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgtgaggccaaggtgggcggatcatgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagtctagccaacatggtctctaataaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcatgatagcgggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggtggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgagcctcggaggcagaagttgtagtgaactgagaccagaccaccacactccagcctaggcaacagagcaagactccgtatcaaaaacaaaaacaaaaacaaaaaaaggcagggcccagtggctcacacctgtaatccctgcactttgggaggccgaggcgggaggatccatgaggtcagaggttcaagaccagccttcccaatacagtgaagccccatctctactaaaaacataaaaattagctgggcgtggtagcatgcacctgtagttccagctactcaggagactgaggcagaagaatcgcttgaacctgggaggaagaggttgcagtgagccgagatggcaccactgcactccagcctgggcaacagagcaagattccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTAGGGCATCACTTTTCCGACTGTCAGCCAGTGACCAGTAGTAAGAAACACTAACATTAAACCATGAGTCAGCTTGCTAATGTCAGCATCATGATAAACATAAATAAGTTTGTTTTGCAATGATGACAAGGTTAGATAGCATGATCTTTTACCAAAAACTAAATTTTAGGTGGAGATGAGAAGGCAGATGACAGGAAAACACTAAGGGGTGATAACCTAAGTCACCGCTCCTAAAACAGACAGGAGACAGTAGGTCAGCTGTAATAAACTGCTCCACAATGGATTACACAGACACTGGAGAAGATTGTGATCTTCTCTAGAAATCTTAAATATTTTTTTCAAAAACATGCATACTTGGGAGTAGGTAAGATAGGGAAGAACCTCCAAGTCTCCTGGTGCCCAGTCTCCCAAGAAGCTGGAGAAAGCACAAGCAGCATCACTGATGAAGGCTGACTCCCAGATATCACTCCATAATTTTGGAATTCAAAAACTGCCTCTTggccaggcgtggtagctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggtggatcacttgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcttgaccaacatggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaattagccacgagtggtggtgcatgcctgtaatcccagctacttcggaggctgaggcaggagaactgcttgaacctgggaagcagaggttgcagtgaactgagatcgcgccattgcactccagcctgggcaacaagagcgagactccctctcaaaaaaaTACATAAACTGCTTCTTGTTGGTCACCCAGATATTCTCTAGTCAACATTTCAGTATGTTCAAATCAAAGAATCAGGAAAACAAATGATCCGGCATTTGACTGCTTCTATGCACCTGTACACTGGACTTTCTGGAAAGGTGAAGAGCTGGCTGGAGCTCATCAGGATCCAAGTATTAAGGAGCTGACAAGGGTCACTGTGCCTTCTCTTCTGTGCTTACCTCAGACAACAGCCCCTAACAGACCAGTCTGAGATGCTCCAGGTTCACCCACACAGTGGCCCTGTACTGTCTGCTCAAGCTGAGCAATCAATCACCAACCTGAGACAGATTCAGGGATTCACTCGAGGGGTCAAATGGGAAATAGGCAGCTGACAACTCTCCCAATACCTAAACCCATCAAAGCAATTACCTGCACCTTAAGCAGAATCCAAATTGGCTATGGACTCAGATGTCTGATAACCTAAAAACTAAATGGTggccgggcgtggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggcggatcacggggtcaggagatcgagaccaccctggctaacacagtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctatagtcccaggtacccgggaggctgaggcaggacaatggcatgaacccgggaggtagagcttgcagtgagcagagactgtgtgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagggcaacactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaCACTAAATGGTAGgcccagcacggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaacactttgggagtctgagaccagcctggccagtatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcgtggtggcgggcaccACTGGTTGCTATTTACCCAAAGAGATAGAGGAAAAGAAACTCTAGACGTCTAATTGCTTACTCTGAAAAGGGTGGTGGGAAACACTAAAAGAACTATCATATGCTAAGGTTAATTCGCCTTACGAGGTGaatcccagctacaagggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacctgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccaagatcacgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcaagactggctcaaacagaaaacaacaaCTATAAATGGTAAACTTCACAACAGAGAACAAGCCAACCAAGAGCTGCCAAGTTCTTTAAAAGGTGGCTTTCTGTTCTACTGCCCTCTCCCTTCAAAGTGTTTCTCAACTTTAGCCTGTTTCTTAAAAGAGCAGATCTAAATGATAAAAAAAAGACATTCGATTCCAAAAATTAAGTCCTAATCACAACCTACCACTTACTAGAAAGTCACCCAATCTCTCTCTATCTCTGAGTAGCGTTATGAAACATAAACCCTAAAAGCCCCTGAGCACAGACAGCACCAGCACAAAGACTTGTGTCCTAACAGTATGGCAAAACTGGACAATATCAGCACACGTCATCTCCACTGAGGAGGCTGTCCCTCCACACACGGACTGCCTGGTGCTGTTACCAGCTCTCCCGGCCCAGCAGCACTGACACAGGCCGGTGGTCACTGAGCCTGAGAAAAGCCCATGATGTCAGTCAGAACTGTCACAGCAGACAGGTGCCCTTGTGCTGCACTAGGCACGTGCGCTAAACACCTCCAAAGAGCCGCAGAGGggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggtggatcacctgaggtcaggagtttgagatcagcctgaccaacaaggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaattacccaggcgtggtggtgcatgcctgtaatcccaactactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaactcgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagctgagatcgtgccattgcactccaacctgggcaacaagagcgaaactccatctcaaaaaaCACAGCCGCAGAGGAGCTCGTCGGGtctccattgcatggatgatgaaagtgaagcacagctaccaaaccactaagtaagcaatggagtcaggatccaaggacccttgtggtctggctccaaagacctgcacttcatcctcacaaatctgaggcagccatcgtcagcccagtttatagatgaaaaaaagaaggtgaaataacttgcccagggtcacacagggactctaactcaagacatttgacctagaaaaatgTCACTCTTATACTGGACAACTGTAAGACAGGAAAACTACATACAATCAGAACTGGTCTCATGTGGTATATTAAAAACAGCTTTGAAATGAGCCCATATATGTTGTTTTGAAAACTTTTCAAAACATCACATGGCCAGACAACATGGGAGTAAAGGTTAATTACACTTTTGGTGAATTACAAAGACACATTCATTACATTTTCAACATGTGAACACTAAAGAAATATACCttttttttttttcccgagaggatcttgctctgtcacccaggctagaatacagtggcacgatcacggctcactttagcgttgacctctcaggttcaaaccatccttccacctcagcctccaaagcaggtaggactataggaacacgtcactacacccagctaacatttctgattttgtagagactttgcccaggctggtctcgaattcctgggctcaagcaatcttccggcctctgcctcccaccaaagtactgggattacaggcgtgagcgcacacctggccATCTGTAACTTTTTCAGAGCTTAATATGATTAATATTGCTGTTTGACAGTTTACAAGTTGAGAAACTTAGTTTATTTATAGACTGCCTTATAACAAATATAGCACACATCCTTTCCTAGGCAACTTCCAGATAAAACATATCAAGGCCTGGGTCTTTTGTGGTCAGGCTGAGGCTGACTCAGGCTGGAAGCAGCCAATGATGAGGACAGGGAGGGTATCTTCTCCCAGGTAAAACAACTGAGTACTGGGAGGATCCTGGGTAGAAATGTGCCAGGAGTTCCATCCATCAAGCTTAAGGTGATGGTCCAGGCAGAAAATAAAGGCCCACAATTTTTTTTTTGGAAGGGGACAGGgagacacagcgtcatcttgtcacccaggctggagtgtagaggcaacatctgagctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggctcaagcaattcccctgcctcagcctcccaagtacctgggattgcaggtgcacaccacaacacctggctaattttatttctgtatttttattagagacaggttatcaccatgttggtcagactggtctcgaactcctgacctcatgcaatccgtctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgagattacaggcgtgagccaccgcacccggcAGAAATCttttttctttttttctttatttgagaccaagtctcgcactgtttcctggactggagtgcagtggcgcaatctcggctcaccgcaatctctgcctcccaggttcaagcgattttcctgcctcaccctccaaagtagctgggattacaggtgcccaccatcacacctggctaatattttctatttttagtagagatggggtctcactatcttggccaggaaggtctccatctcctgatcttgtgatctgcccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggagtgagccactgtgcctggctTGagttgaaatcgttacagctttatattttgtgtctttgttttgtgttctcatgagcaattgttttttttttgaaatggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctagagtgcaatggcacgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaagctattctcctgcctcagcttcctgagtagctgggattacaggtgcgcaccaccacacccagctaatttttatatttttagtagagacagtgtttcaccatgttggtcaggctggtatcctgacctcatgatccacccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccactgagccctgcctatcataagcaatttgaaatcattagacaggtttcacaaacattagtttgaagggcagagtctatcatataggttcattataatttattcactcatttctcttcttgggcatttttcttgatccaaatttcaatctcataaacaattttgtcataagtatcatttatccattcattcatttatctgagacagactcttgttctgttctccaggctggagcacagtggtgcaagcacagctcacttcagccttgatcctccgggctcaactgatcctccagcctcagcccctcgagtagctgggactatagttgcaggccaccttgtctggctaatttttttggtattttgtgtacagacagggtttgtcatcttgcccaggctagtctccaactgggctcatgcgacccacccaccctagtctcccaaagctcttggattacaggcatggaccactacacctggcccacaaacatctttactataaccatgtttccatgtatttccaattactttcttaggatagagatttctagaaataagtcacaaggcagagatacttttaGgccaggcatggtggcttgtgactgtaatcccagaacttcgaagactgaagtaggagaatagcttgaggccaggagttggaggctaccgtgagctatgagcacgccactgcaatccagcctgggcagaacaagatcctatctcaaTAGTTGTATTACATCTTttttttcctcttaaaataagttacgataaacatcttttctctgcattcattttcacatatccttaagacacattcccaacagtggaattctggaaaaaaatgtttaaaACACCAACAGTAggccaggtgcaatggatcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggagagtgaggcgggcagatcacaaggtcaggagcttgagaccatcctcgctaacatggtgaaaccctgcctactgaaaatacaaaaaattgggccgggcgcggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgaatggatcacaaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctgaccagtattgtaaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcatggtggcgcgtgcctgcaatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggtaggagagttgcttgaacccggcaggcggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcatcgcgccattgcactccagcctgggcgacaaaagcaaaactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaatacagaaaattggccaggtgtggtgacatgcacctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgcggtgggaaaattgcttgaaccgggaaggcagagatggcagtgagccgagatcatgccactgtactccagcctggacgagagtgagacactgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCATCGACAGTGTCTTGACAGATCACTCTCCCACAACACTGCTgctccaccacacccagctaattttctattttttttctagaaacatgttcttcaggcaaaaactcctgggctcaagtgatccttcacttttggcctccaaaagtgacaggattacaagcagaagcccccttgcctgCCCAGCCCGGTTTACTGttttttttttgagatgggatttcgctcttgttgcccaggctacagtgcaatggcacgatcttggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattataggtgcccagcaccacgcccggctaattttcaatttttaatagagatgggggtttctccatgatggtcaggctggtctcgaactcccgacctcaggtgatctgcccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgcttgggtaagaggtgtgagccacagggcccggccCTTGTTTACTCTAATTCTTTGAGTGAGGAGGACCTTTTTCTTTTCCACATGCTTATAAACACTGGTTATCAAATAGttgttttttttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctcggttgtccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatgtcggctcattgaaacctccgcctcctgggttccagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggtgcccaccaccatgaccggctgatttttgtattttcggtagacacggtgttgtactatttggccaggctggtgttgaactcctgaactcgtgatctgcccgcctcggcctcccgaagtgctgagattacaggcataagccacctcgcctgaccTAATTATTTTAATATGAGCCCCCTGTAAGGTCAAAAATGACTTTTAGGGAGTGGGAGATGCGGGTAGTTTTCAGGGAGTAACTCTTGTATATTGTACATTTTCACATAGGACAAAAAGGTCTCTGACCTGTTCTAGCTCTCTAACCCATTCTCTCAaggcacatgccaccacgcctggctaactctggcatttttttgtagagacggggtttccccatgttgcccaggctggtcttgaactcccgggctcaagcaatcctcctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgttgagattacaggcgtgagccaccacatgcctggccAAGGCCACTATTTTAAATAGAAtttttttttttgagacagagtttcgctctgtcacccaagtagaataaagtgcaatggtgtgatctcagcacactgcaaccttcaccaactgggttcaagccattctcctgcctcagtctcccgagtagttgggattagaggacagcaccaccatgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagaagaggcagcgtttcaccatgttggccaggctagtcttcaactcccgacctcaggtgatccacccacctcagcctcccaaattgctggaattacagctgtaagccactgcacacggtcCAGGAATTTATTCTttattgagaattgcattcctgtgtcaaatgaaacatctcaggtaccccccaaatatatacacctattatgtagccacaacaaattTTTTAAATAggctgggcgcagtggctcacgcctgtaatctcaacactctgggaggctaaggcgggtggatcacctgcggtcaggagtttaagaccagcctggccaacatgacaaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaatcagccaggcgtagcgatgtgcacctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggaaaatcgcttgaaaccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgggccgagatcacaccactgcactacagcctgggcaacaagagtgagactctgtttcaaaaaaaaaaaaaattttttttttaaataaataaaCAGAATTTACTTGAggccaggtgcagtggctcacgcctataatcacaacactttgggaggccaaggcaggtggatcacctgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctgaccaaaatggtgaaacctcatctctactaaaaatataaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcgggtgcctgtaatcacagctacttgggaggctgaggcatgagaagagaaggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcatgccactgtactacagcctgggcgacaagagcaaaactatatctccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccaggcatggtggcaggcacctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggtaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggtggaggttacagtgagctaagatcatgccacggcactccagccgaggcaacaacagtgacactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaggaagaaTTTACTGTAAAACGTATTGACATCTTGTAATGCAAGCGGAGGGACCCTTTCCCTTGGGTTTTATATTTTTCACTGGCTCCCTCATCCCATGCTCAGTGCCTTCCCGGTCTTCACTCAAGAACCAGAATGGCATCAAACCCCTCTACTAACCTCTGGTCATACTAGCGATGGGTGATTAGGGATTAAAAAACAATTAAAATTGAGTGAGTTTAAATCATGTATTCTTAccaggcacagtgtaatcacacctgtaaacccagcactttgggagagtgaggtgggtggatcacctgaggtcaagagttcaagatgagcctggccaacatggcgaaaccacatctctactaaaaatacaaaaatcagctgggtgtggtggcgggcacttctaatctcagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttaaacccaggaggcggaggttgcaatgagccaagattgcgccactgcattccagcttgggcaacagagggagactctgtctcaaaaaaacagaaaaaagaaTCTTAAAAGGCTCCACTGGGGGCAACAACGAAAAAAAGCTGAAAAATGCTACTCTAAATGAATTTACTggccaggcatagtggctcacacctgaaatcccaataccagtgagaggccaaggtggcaggatcacttgagggcagaagtttgagaccagcctgggcaacatagtaaaaccctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggccgggtgtggtggcacacacctatacccgcagctactcaggaatccgaggcagggctatcactgagccgaagaggtcaaggttacagcaagccatcatcacgccactgccctccagcctgggtgacagaacaagaacctgtctcaaaaataaaTAggacaggcgcggtggctcacagctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggcggatcacaaggtcaggagatcgagaccagcctggccaacatggtaaaaccccatctctaccaaaaatacaaaaatgagctgggcatggtggcgcatgcctgtcatcccagctacttgggaggctaaggcaggagaatcacttgaaccagggagtcggaggttgcaatgagccaagatggtgccactgcactctagcctggtgacagagcaagactctgtctcaaaataaataaataaataaaaattaaaataaattaaataaataattagccagacatggtcgtgtgcatctgtagtactagctatttaggagactgtggaagaaggatcacctgagcccagcaattcacttacagtcagctataatcatgctgctgcactccagcctgggcaacagagtgaaactctgtatcaaaaagaaaaaGAagctaggcacggtggctcaacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcgggcggatcacctgacgttgagagttcgagaccagcctgatcaacatggagaaacaccatctctactaaaaatacaaaatcagccgggcatggcggctcatgcctgtattcccagctcctcaggaggctgaggcagaattgcttgaacctgggaggagtaggttgcagtgagccaagatcgcactactgctctccagcctgagcaacaagagtgaaactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaTTTACTAATGTAGATAAAATAACACAACTACTGAGTACTAAAAaaatgcaaattgagatcagaaagaaatgccattttacaaccactaaactgcaaaaattaaacagtctgataatacaaagtgttggtgagcgtgcagacactgctatgggactttaccaaatagaaacaagaagacaacattacaaaattgtcttgcgaggataaatacgggtatctcctataaaccagcaatccctctcctaggaatatacccaaaataaatccttatccacgtgacaaggaagttatgcaaaaatattcatattgtctgcagtagcaaaactagaatcaatctaaatgtctatgaataaagcaaagatcgtttgagaattattcaagcagcaatgaaaactatatgcaacaacctgggcaaacagaaacatgatactgaaccaaaaaaatctaattttaaagactctacactatgaaaccattcaaaactaagcaaaaataaacactgttcaaggactcataaaaatgtaattaaaatttttaaaagcaacaaaatgaGATAACACATATTATCATTTAGGACACTGACAGGACGCTGGACACAACATATAAACAGTACTGGCTGTATTCTAGCTCTGAGCTTGAGTGGCAGGATAACAAGCAACTACCTTATTATTTTGCTTCATAACTTACGTATGTTACATTTTTCTTGTTAGTTCAATATTGGGTTCTTCGCAGTAGGAATAAATCAACATTAAATAAAACTTACATCTAATTCAAAAAACAGGTCTCTTTCTTTACTTGCAATCTCATAATCTGCTCGGAGGGCCAAGTCGTGGATTTTGGTACATTCTCCTAAATCCATGCGCTGTGGGAAAGAAACAGAAAATGCAGACCTCAGTGCCTACCTACTGTAGAAAGCACACAACGCGACTTGGTGTTTCAACTGTCACCAACAGAAATGATCACTTTTGGAACACTGACACTGCAATAAGAAAATTAAGAAAGGAGATATGGCTGAGAAGCCTCATTTCACTTTTACCATCGTGACTACGTGATACTTGAAACTGATGCATTTAATAGTGTAAAGTTTCTATTTTAGACCCAGAGATAATTGGACTGTAATCATCACAACTACATTAATTGGCTTTTGCCAGtttttaaggagtctcacctgtcacccaggctggagtacagtggcgcgacctcagcttactgtaacctctgcctccggggttcaggcaattctcctgcctcattctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcacgtgataccacacccagctaattttttttttttttttttttttttttttttgtattttcagtagggacagggtttcgccacgttggccaggctggtcttgaacctctgacctcaagtgatacacccaccttggcctcccaaagagctggcattacaggtgtgagccacggtgcctggccCAGTTTTATTTATGCATCAGTCCAAGGATTCAGTAAATGGCAGCATGTGGGGTGGCAGGGATAGGAAACGGCCAGggctgggcgtggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggagggtgaggcaggcggatcacttgaggtcaggagttcaaggccagcctgcccaacatgataaaacccagtctccactaaaactacaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcagggcacctgtaatcccagctacctggggagctgagacacaagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggtggagtttgcagtgagccaagactgtgccactgcactccagcctgggtgataaagtgagactctgtctcagaaaaggggaaaaaaaaaaggaaaGGGCCAGAAAACAGTCTCACTGCAACAAATTTCTAGGCATTGTCTTGCAATCTTGACTACTTGAGATGCTCGATGCTTAAGATGCAGAGACAGAGGAAGAGGAAAGAGCGGACAGAAGTTAGATTTTGGCAATTACATCACAACCTAACACTTGGCTTTGTGTAGCTGATTGTGTATCAAAGGGAATAAAGGAGAACAGGCTGGTTCGTAGCCAAATACATGCTCTACACATTTTCTTAGCCTGGGAAATGACCCTGGACATCTAAGTGAGGACAGATAATTGTCCCACTCAGTTCCTCCATTTGACAAGCAAAACGTTCCATTACTAAAACAAAATGATTTATGTTGTCAGTAAGAACAGCATGATGTGCTATTATGTGTACCATATGCAGTACAATTAGAAAACAGTGTATGATTTTAATCTAAATCCTAAGTATAGGACTCTATGCAGACACCTTCTGCCTCTCGCCATCTACACAGCAACAGGGAGGTTTGTGTGCTGAGGATCATCGTGTCAAGTTATAGAGTGCATGTTAACAAAACCCAACATCCCAACTAGGAGACACCCCCAGTAGGACAAAAGAACATGTCTACATAACCAGAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGACGTTAGTACCAGTTgcagtggcacatgtctgtaatcccaacacctttgggagggcaagatgggaggatcacttgagcccaggagtttgagaccagcctgggcaacatagcaagaccctgtctctatgaaaaaattaacaattagctgggtgtggtggtatgtgcctgtagtcccagccacttgggaggctgaggggaagagatcgcttgagcctaggaggtcaaggcttcaagtgagctgtgactgagccactgcactccagtctgagcaacagagacccctgtctttttaatttttttttttttttgagatggagtttcgctcttgttgcccagactgtagtgcaatctcggctcaccgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaaggagctggaattacagacatgtgccaccacgcccagctaattttgtattttcagtagagatggggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtctcgaactgctgacctcaggtgatccacccaccttggcctctcaaagtgctgggattacgagcgtgagccacctcgcccagctTTTTAAAGAGACCCCGTCTTTTaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaGGAAGGCTTTAAACCTTTAATCCATCTTGAGGGGGAAAAAAATAGAGAGGCTTGCATGTCTGACTCTTGGGATGCAGTCTCATAGAAAGCATGTAGCATGCTAggctgggcacggtggctcactcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcaagaccatcctggccaacacagtgaaaccccttctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaaattagctgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggaaggagaatggcatgaaccagagaggcagagcttgcagtgagtcaagatcgcaccactgcactccagcctgagcgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaataaaataaaataaaataatagataaaaaaagaaaGCACGTGGCATACTCACTAACAAAACATCCTTCAGTATCACCAATAATAAAGCTAACATGGAGGCGGCAGACAACGGGTCTGCCTTGTATGGTGATGTTTATTTTGACGAAAGATTGACTTTTCTCCTTTATCATTCTTACTCTGAAGTCAGATGGGACTCACGTTATGGTCGGTTACATAGAAGACTTAGAGATAGGACAATAGTGGTTCTAGAAGCCAAATTTGCACTTAAAATCACTGTCACTGAAAATCTGACAACTTTTACCTCATTCACTCTGttttttcttttttttttttgaggcggagtctcactctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacgatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcccagattcaagtaatcctcctgcctcagcctcccgaatagctgggactacaggggcacgccaccacgcccggctaatatttttgtatttttagtagagacaggttttcatcatgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcaagtgatccacccgcctcctcctcctcctcccgaagtgctgggattacaggtatgagccaccgcacctggccTCATTCACTCTTCTAAGTTGTGGGTGTTGTCCTTTAAAATATATAGTTTCCACAAACTAAGCATTGTAGCTGAAAAATGAATGGCAGCTATCAGAAAAAATGCTTTAAACTAATCAAGGCTTTGTTGTTCAAAGAAAAAGCTACTACCAAAGGAAGCAGACCCTAAAACCTGAAGTACAACAAAGTATGAAGTACAAATTGATTTCCATTATAAAAAACTCAACTGTCAAGAAAGATATGACATTAGAAAACCTCATGAggccgagcgcggtggctcatgcctataatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggagggcggatcaccttaggtcagaagttcgtgaccagcctggccaacgtggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccgggtgtggtagcgcacgtttgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgagcccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagctgagatggagccattacattccagcctgggcaacaagagcgaaactcagtctcaaaataaaaaaaaaagaaaaCCTCATGAggccaggcgcggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggcagaggtgggtggatcacctgaagtcaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatgatgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcgggcgcctataatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagagttgcttgaacccaggagacagaggttgcagtgagcagagatagcaccatgcactccagcctaggcaacagagtgagactccgtctgaaaaaaaaaaaCCTCACATGAAGCAAAATTCAGCACTTACTTTTCAATGTGAGAGCTCCCAAAAGAGTCCCTGCTTAAGCACACTGAGGATAGGCTTGGGTTCTATGATTACCCTCTTTGGATGTAGCTTTTCAGCTTTGCCAAGGAGGCAGGGAAAAATACTACTGGCCATTCCCCTGGATGCCCAACATCAAGCAGAGCTGAAATATCACATTCATTAAGTCCTTCCACAATATTCCACATGGCTGCTAAATCCAGTGTGTCAGGCGTTTTTTACTCCACAACCTGTGTTCTCTTCTGTACCTTCTACTGGTCTAACACTACTGACCAGGAAGGGCACCAAAGTTTCCGGAACCTTCAGAAAACACAGTTCTggccgggcgcagtgtctcatgcctgtaatctcagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagctccagactagcctggtcaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactgaaaatacaaaagttagccgggcgaggtggtgcatgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaagagaatggcttgaacctgggaggcagaggttgcggtgagccacgatcacatcactgcactccagcctgggcaacaagagcgaaactccgtctctttttttttttttttttgagacagagttttgctcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggctcgatctcggctcaccacaacctctgcctcgcgggttcaagtgactctcctgcctcagtctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcgccaccacacccagctaattttgtattttaatagagacagggtttatctatgttgatcaggctggtcgccaactcccaacctcaggtgatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtactgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcacccagccTGAAATTCTGTCTCAAaaaaaaaaagaaaagaaaagaaaagaaaagaaaTACTCTCACTCAGATTATTTTTCTCACCAGTATTCTGCAGCTATGCTACACAGGGTCTGGCCAAGGAAAACATGGTTGAAATCTTCCCGAGAGTGCACATCTATCTGCTCCCTCTGACTTCCTTCACTATGGGTTTATCAAGAATTCCAAGTTGTGCATCCTATGAAAATACCCTACAGTGAAACTTCCTTTGACGAGTTGAAATCATTAATCTGTATTGACCTCGGTACACACAACAATCTGCATCAAACAGTAACGTTTTCCCATCCCAGGCCAAACAGCAGACAACACCCCAAGGAACAGAGGCACAAGGTTTGGCATTCATTTCGCATTTGCTGTCAGAAAACTCAGCTTGAGAAGTTTTAATACATCTGAGCGGTTTTCCAGAAGGTGCTCCTCCCTAATATAAGCAATGATTCATCATGAAGAAAACTTCCTTTAACATATGCACATTTCATCCTTAAAATGAGAGGATAGTTTTTAACCTCCGTGAGGTAGCTGTGAAACCTTAAAATGGGGGTGGTCTCTACAGGACTCCTTTTCTCTCAGTGGCGTAATCACCACAGATAACCTTCCACTATTCAGTCTTTTCAAATTCTTACTTCGAATAAATGCACATTATACAAAGCTAGCGTTTATCTGTTTTGTTCATCTGAAGTGAACTTAAAATTGTAGGGTTCTATATTCATTAGATAGCATGTTGATTTCTTGAAGGGGTGGCACAACACAAAACTACAAAATCAATGTATCCTCAACTGATTTTTAAAAACCAAAAAATTGCGGGAAGAAAATGTACCTTGCTAGATCAAAAGTTTTCCACACAACCAACTTGAGGTCAAACAAACCCACGCAGAATCTTCAAAGAACTTCAGGCTGACCTAAAGCATATTTTTTGCTACAGCCAAATTAGAATACTTGCCCTATTTAGTTGTGAATATCTCAGTATAAATGACTTTACAAAAAATCTGGTAACTTTACAGACAGAATTTTACAACAGTGAAATTTGTTCCATAATATAAAATCCTACCAAATGAATAGAATCTATCATTTTAAGGGCATCAGGGATTTCTGCCTGTTGAAGAGTGGAGGATTGAGAAAggagcagtggctcatgcctgtagtaccagctgctcaagaggctgaggtggtaggattgctggagcccaggagttcaaggctgcagtgagctgtgatcacaccactgcacttcagcctgggcaacacagagtgacactccatcgcaTGCATGCATGCAAACATACATACGAGTGGAGGAACACCTGCCATAATTAAGCCACTTAGAGAAAAAGAGACTTAAGTTAAAACAAAATTCAACATAGAAAAACCGTCACTGCCTATACAGCACTCATGTCAGAGTGTTCCATGAGGTCCCCCAAAATGCACCTACCGTCCCAGCCAGGATGTCATGGGGGCAGCAGTCCAGAAGGTGACTCTTGCAGACACGGTCATCTGTAAACTTGACCCTCTGTCTGGTTTCGTCTCCTGAAATTCATTTGTGGTTTTAAATAAGACAATATTATCACATTAACCACCAAAAAATAACTAGTATAACAATTCACCTGGATGATTTGCAGACTATCATTTCTGTGTTCTCCCCATCAAATGCAATGAAAAGCTGATCTAAAGATATTTACAACTGGAGTGGAATACACATTTTTTTGAGGCTAGTTATATCATGGAGAATCACACTTAATGAGATCTGACTCCATCACTGTACCAAAGAAGTCAAGGAGTCAGACGTAAACAGCTGAGCACCAAAAGGCCATTGGCTCCACATATACATGTGGCAATGAGACTGCAAAACCCAAGCTAATCAGAGGTCCATGAACCACCAAGGGTGACTTATAGAGCTGGTAATTTCCACCAACAAAAGCTACTTATTAATCTAATCTTTTTGTTATGAACAAATGCAGAGGCAGTATTTTGCCCAAAATTGAATGAAGAAGAAAGCTTTCAAACTCTATCGAAGACTGTTAAATAATCTAGATCTATTCTTCCTACGTCCCTTTCGTTCCCACCCTTAAAAAAGAGAGTTGCTACCTGGGAGTCACTTTTAACAAGACAATACCAAAAAAAGCAAAAAAGGAACTAGGTTAGTCAATACACACTGTGAGCTCCAACACATACTGTACCCATCTGCATTCTTCAAGACCTCAGCTGCAGAATTTTATGCCCGCTGTTGAAAAGTGTTAAAGGAAAAGTTTTCTTGCCCACACCTGCAGTAAGGAAGTCGGGGGAATGATACATAAAAGTAAAGGTAAAGTGGTATGTGACAAATTTTAAAGCTAGTCTGTGTATACAACACAGAGCTGTGCAACGCTAGAGGAGGAATATATTTTAGGATTTGCAAGCATCCAGGATTAATGTAGTGTCTTTTTATTGAAAATGTTTTCTTTCTAAACTACACTTTTAAAGTTACTTGTGAAAAAAAGCAAACACTTTTTTGTTATAACAGCTTAGAAATTGGTTGTGACTCACGGCTCGATGAACATGAGGCTTTCTGCAACTCCCTTGCAGATTGATGTAGGCAGGCAAAGATACACTGAACCTTTATAAATAAAATAGAGGGGCCACAATTGTTCAGTTTGTATGAAATAAAAATATGGGAAGCAATTCAAAAGCAACTCAATATACAAAGAAAGCTAAAAAGCACTTATTCACCTATGAAATAAAGTGCAAATAATCTGCACAGCCCTGAGAATGTGCCAGTGTGAACTTACAACTTCATTACTCAGCAGAAAAGAAAACACAAACCACAGCAGGTATATAGTTTTGCAAAGATGCAACCGCTTTCTCCTGTGACAACCATCATGATCTTGAGCTCCTCCCTACACAGTACAACCTACCTAACGACTGTCAAGCGCTGGCTACACAGAGGCTCTCCTGTGTGCTGGGGGGAAGGGGGCAGCTGGAAAAGTACTTGGCAGAAACCCACGTTAGAAAAGCTCAGTTTACGGTTCCCCTTGCAATGGTACAGAACCAGAGCGGGCCAGGTTTTCGAGGCCCATCCGGCTCCCTCGGGTGTAGCTTCTTCCCAAGGAGCCTCGGAAGAGTTCTGCCACCCGGCTGCCAGCGACCTGGAGCCCACGCTGATTCCAGCCCTCCGCCGACTCCACAGTTCGCGGAGGGGCACGGAGCCGCGGCGCCCGCCGGGGAGGAAGTAGCAGGACGGTACATAGGAAGGAGGCTGAAGCCCCATCCATGGCGCAGACTCCGAGAGAGGAGCCCGACCTGGACCCACGGCCGCCTCAGAGACGCACCGGCTTAGACAAAGGCCCGGCGCCTGCGGTCGGAGCGCGGGGGAGGAGGAGCGATGCCCCGCGCAGGCGCAGGCGCAGACGATCGCGGCCCCCGCCTCAGGCCGCCCGGCGGCCTCGCCTCACTCCCACCCCAGACCCTCGCCTGGTTGGCCGCTCTGACTCACCGTCCCGAGCCGTGCCCATGAGCTGGTCCAGCAGGGCCCGCATCTGCGCCTGGGCGGACATGGTAGCCGGCGGAGGCGACGGGGTCGGCCGCGACGACTTCTCTCAGGCAGGCGGTGGCAGCGGCGTCGACAAACGATGGTCGCGTCGGCCTCGAGCCCACTCGGCTCTTTCCCGCCGCGGGGGACGCCGGGAGGAAGTACGACGGCGCCGGCGCACGCCCTGCTGGGAAATGTAGTTTCTGGGGTGGGTGCTTAGGGAGGCTGAGGCTCTGAGTGGTCGCAAGTTGTCCAACGGCGGAACCAAAATCCCAACCCTGATTTTACTCTAGACCCCCAGGACCTCAAACGAGTCTCTACGGAGGGTAAACTACAATAAAATGAAATACAGTCAATCAAAAACAAGATgaatccgtgctttttctaagctagccatgaaaccgtgagcatattatttagctccccgacgctcgtttttttaaatctgtgaaatgagggttctaaaggtgcccctcatatgatttttgtgaaagttaaataaAGCATGGAATtttatttatttatttatttatttatttaGAGCGagggtcttgctccgtcgcccaggctggaatgcagtggcgcgattaccgctcactgcagcctcgacctccccggctccttatcctcccgcctcagcccggcaaagtattgggattactggtgtgaaccaccacgtttggccaTCAGTCATGGCATTAATATTAGGTTCTATGATTACAACCTCGTGGTCGTCCTTTTGTGAGCTCATGGTCTACTGTCCCAGGGACTAAAGAAAAGGCATATGTAAGCAGTTATTTTATGTGATAATAGAATTATAGCATGCACTTATGTGTGCATAGTCTGGCATATACTTCTATTATATTAAACCTCTAttatttatttatttatttttgagacggagtttcgcccaggctagagtgcaatggcgcgatcttggctctccgcaacctccgcctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcaacctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccacgcccggtctttattttttatttgtttattttttttttgagacggagtcttgctctgtcacccaggctggaatgctgtggcgcgatctcggctcactgtaagctccgcctcccgggttgaagcgattctcctgcctcagtctccccagtagctggaatttcaggcgcccgccaccccctccggctaatttttgaatgttaagtagagacggggtttcaccatgctggccaggctggtctcaaagtcttgacctcaagtagccagccaccatgcccagctgatttttgtattttcggtagacacggtgttgtaccgtattggccaggctggtcttgaacttctgaccttgtgatctgcctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgagattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgccctgccGTAttttatttatttttgagacggagtctccctctgtcgcccagcctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggcttcctgcatcctctgactcctgggttcaagcgattctcttgtctcagtctccccagtagctgggattacaggcacccgccatcattcccgactaactttttttttgtacttttgcagagacggggttccgccatgttggccaggctggtcttaaactcctaacctcaggtgatccgcccacctcagcctcccaaagtcctcggattacagctgtgagccagaacgccaggccCCTGCTCTCTATTTAAAATAAATAAATAGGGTGTCCGTTGGGCTGCTCGGGTCGGATTCCGCGGTGCCAGCCCTTCCCCATGGCCGACCCTGAGAAGTTGCAGGTTTCTTCGCCGCCCCCGCCGCCTCCTTCTCCCTCCTCTTCAGACGCCTCTGCAGCATCTTACCCTGGCAGCCCAGTGAGTTTGGGCTGGCCAGTTCCGAGCAGGAGCAGCGGCCGAACGGTGGACCCGCTGGAGGAAGTGGGGCTGCAGATCGGAGACGCAGCCTTTTCATTAACCAAACTTCTTGAAGCCACATCTGCAGTATCAGCTCAAGTGGAAGAACTTGCCTTCAAATGTACAGAAAAGGCACGTTTCCTTAAAACGTGGCGGGACCTATGGAAAGAAGGCTATGATTCTTTGAAACCTGATGACTAATTTGGCATACTTCGTTGTTTAATAATGACTGCAATAATTCATACTTCTTCTTATGTCATATTTGTACGTGTACCACACGTATAGGATGACCTCTGTCCAGCAGTTCTGTATATACTCAGAATGAATTTTTTCTTGGTTTTCTTGGCTTTTCTGAAAGCAGAATACCGATGCTATTTTTGTTGCGGACCAGTACTTGTTTGTCCTTACATACTTCATGCCTCTGAACTTTCGTAGAATCCTTTATGAAAGTTAACTTCATCAATAGATGGTTAATATTAATAGAGCCACAGGGCTACCAGCAGCAAACTAGGTGGACCATTATTTGTTTTGAAACAAGATGCTAAGCATGGCAGAGTTTGAAGTTGCATTTCATCTTAAGGACCAAGGGAGGTAACTTTAAGGTTGCCAGTGGTGGATCCagctccattaggctacgttgtctacagctaatgattgtgcttcattctgtatccccagcacctaaaacagggtcacacaacactcactgttggttgaatacaagaatTAACAAACATAAAaataaataaataaatataggccgggtgtggtggcatgtgcctctagtcccagccactcgaagctgaggttggaggatggattgagcctgggtggttgaggttgcagtaagctgtgatcacaccactgcatggcagcctgggcaaaagaacgagaccctgtctTggccaggcacggtggctcacacctgtgatcccagcactttgggaggccaaAAAAAAAAAAAAAGAATGAGACCCTGTCTCAAAAATGAAATTAAAACTTAAAAAACATGCCAggctgggggcagtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggcgatcacctgaggtcaggagtttgaggccagactgaccaacatggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaattagccaggcgtgatgacgcatgcctgtaatcccagctactcgagaggctgagggaggagaattgcttgaacctgggaggcagaggttgcggtgagccgagaatgcatcattgcactccagcctgggcaacaaaagcaaaactccctctcCCCCCGGCCAAAAAAAAggccgatcacagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaacactttgggaggccgaggtgggtggatcacaaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaatcctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaactagcctggtgtggtggcacacgcctgtagttccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacccaggaagcggaggttgcagtgagccaagattgtgccgcggcactccagcctgggcgataaagggagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaCAGGCCGGGAGTGGTCTATTTTGACACTCCACCTCaaaaaaattaattaattaaaaaataaaatttaaattttaaaaaatCATTTCACAAATGATAATTTAATATGATTGCTGCCCTGGAAGGGGGAAAAAAGACTTACTCTAAGAATACAACAAAGACTGTTCATGGGCTAGAAGCATCAAAAGTCCAGACACGGTTAGACAAGttttgttttcatttattttgagacagagtctcactctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcagctcactgcaagctccgcctccgaggttcacaccattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactataggcgcccgtcaccacgcctggctaattttcttgtatttttaatagagacggggtttcacagtgttagccaggatggtctagatttcctgaccttgagatccacccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattataggcatgagccactgtgcccggctGACAAGTTTTAAATAATGTTTTAAGGCATGACTTTGCTTCCAATTGGCCATTTGAACAAAGCAATTAAATCATCTGAATTACGCACCTACCAAACTGCCACAGTTACTAGAAATCAGACAACTgccaggcacagtggcccatgcttgaaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaagcaggagatcacttgagtccaggagttcaagaccagcctggttaatatggcaaaaccccatgtctacaagaaaggaaaaaaattagctgggcatggtggcttacagctgtagtcctagctactccggaggctgaggtgagaagatcacttgtgcctgggaagcagaggttgcagtaagctgtgatcccgccactgcacttgagcctgagggacagagggagaccccatcCttttttttttttttttgagacggagtttcactctagttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcaagatctcagttcaccgcaaactcttgcctcccaggttgaagcaactctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctatgattacaagcacgcgccaccaagtccagctaattttggatttttagtagagactgggtttatacatgttggtcaggctggtcttgaactcccgacctcaggtgatccacctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccCCTAGCCttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttgagacacggtctggctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcagtctaagctcactgcaacctccgcctcctgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgccaccacgcctggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcacagtgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgaccttgtaatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctggaattacaggcgtgagccaccgcccccggccCTGGCACCGTATTTCAAGGCCGAAAATTCGCATCCTCAGTGCCAGCAATTCTCCTCGTGGTCAAAGAGGAGAAACACTGGGGAGAGCACCCGGAAGCGGGGGCGAGGACGCAGATCGGGGGTCGACGTCAAGAAAGAAGGCGGGAAGAGGACAAGGTCGGGAgaggaggaggaggggagcgaggacgcagagaaggaggggaaagaggacggagaggagcgaggacggagggggGACGGGAACGAAGAGGGGCGAGGACGTTCAGCATCCATTGCGACAGCGACAAACAGGACACCGCCAGGTTCCCGGCGGAGGCAGCGCCCAAGATCCCCGTTGCCGAGCAACCGAAGCATGGCGGTGGGGCGGGGTCGGAGCCTGCGCATTTCCGCCCCCGCCCGCCCGGCTGGTCGGAAGTGACGCCAGGGGGCGGGGCCAGCGGCGCGGTCGGGTGAGAGGCCGCGGCGGCAGGTGAGTGAGCGCGGCCTCGTACTCGCGCGTGCACGCCGCAGGGGCGCCGCAGGCCGCCCCTTCGCTCTGGGACCCCGGCCCCCAGGTTCCCCAGTCCCTCGGCCCCTGGAGGACCCCGCCGTGCTGCCCCCTAGCTCCTCCGCCTTCCCGAGTCGGGTGCGGGCCGGGAGGCTGCGGCGGGGCCCCAAGTCCCTCAGCGGGTCGGCAGCAGCGCCTCTGGAGGCTGATTCTTTCGGGTTTCCCCCATTGCCGCAGCCTGGGTTTCAGTGGCATTCAGAACAAGCCCACATGTTCCTCAAAGCGGGGTTTTACCTCCCGGTAGGGAGCTCCCCGCCGTGGCGCAGCGTAGGTGAGCCGGCCGTGGTCGCTTTCGCTCTTGGTGCCGCCTGGGTTGCCTGAGAGTGTTTTTTTATGGTGGAAGAATGTGGATGAGAAGCCTCACGGGGGTCGGAGAGGCGTGTCCTCTCTCGGGACGCTGTCTGCAAGCTTGTCCGTCCGGCACCCCGGGAAAGCTCCCCGAGCGCAGCCGAGGTTGCTCGTCTGTGGGAGGGACTCAGGCATAGAACACAAAACAGAGGCTAGATGGGAGGAAAACACTGGGATTAGCGTTCCTGGCTCTCCCCTACGTTCGTTGGCCGAGAGTTGTCAAGGAGAGAGTTTGCCCTTGGACAGACTGATAGGATATCAGGGTAGGCAATTTCACTTACTCTCTGGTTCTAAACCTTGTGATTCCAGCTGAGGAGGCTGTGACGCGCTCCCTTCCATGTACTGGCTGCCGGTGTCTTTACGGCGCCAGCATCAGATTACACTACTTCCCTTATTGCAATTTCAGTCTGCATCCAATTAGAGCAGAATAactcaacaaatactctccgagtgtctgctgggaaccagggatggttgtaggagctaaggatatagtactccacgaaagaacttcctgtcctcaaggagcttctattctactggagggtacagatagtaaattagataaataaaaaatGGAGCTTGCTGggccggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtcatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggcggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcatggccaacatggtgaaatcccgtctctactaaaaataaaaaaattagctgcgtatggtggcaggtgccggtaatcccagttactcgggttcaagcgattctccccactcagcctcccaagtagctgtgattacaggtgcccgccaccacacccagctaattttttttattttttatttttagtaggggtttcaccatgttggccaggccagtctcaaactcctgacctcaggtgatccactcgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccgcaactggccCTCTTTTTTtccttttgctccaccctcctgagtatctgggactacaggcatgtgccaccaTATTTATTTTTCTTAAAAATTTTTTTTGGGTgggcgcagtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggagtttggggtaggcggatcactaggtcaagagatcgagaccatcctgtccaacatggtgaaatcccgtctctactaaaaatataaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcgcacacctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggctggggcaggagaatagcttgaacccgagaggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagattgcaccactacgctctggagacatagcgagactgtctcaaaataaaTAggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggagggcgaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcgtggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgaggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctacgcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcggaaaccccggggggcggagcctgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggccacagcgagactgtctcaaaaaaataaaataaaataaataaataaaTTATTTTGTAGGGATGGGGTCTCTCTTTCTCAGTCTGGTCCTgaactcctgtgcccaagcaaccctcctttgttggcctcctgaagtgctggaattataagtgtgagccactgcgcccagcctgtttatttatttatgtatttttttaaaaaaatatgtagatgggttctcactgtgttgcccaggcaggtctcaaactcctggcttcaagcagtcctcctgccttggcctcgcaaagtgttaggattacaggtgtgagccaccatgcccACCCCTTCTTTTTCTTTTCAGGCTCCTTGCTTCCATTCTGCTGACTTCtaatggttgtctgctgcttgtaacaacacaaagtttaatggattaaagtgacgaatatttattatccaacagtttctgtgggtcaggaattgatcagtggcttatctgggtgattatgacttcgggtctcatggagttgcagccaagatgttggctggggctgcaggtgtctaaaagctggatggagtcttttctgttttttctagaggtcgaaaatttaaaaagaacaaataaaataaaagctggaccagggctggaggatctgattccaagatggctcactcacaaggctagtgactggaagcctcagttccctcttggctggtggcaggagccctcagttccttgcatcatggaactttccttagggcccatgtcctcacatggtaattatcttcccttagagcaagtgatctcggagtgaaagtggaaggtttccaccacaaaacctgttaATGAAAttcttttttttttttttttgagacagagtcttcctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtgacgtgatcttggctcattccgcctccctggtccagctattctcttgcctcagcctctggaggagctgggactacaagcacgtactaccacgcccagctattttttttatttttagtaaagacggggtttcaccatgttggctgggctcgtctcaaactcctggcctcaggtgatcctcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctagggttacagacttgagccaccgtgcctggccTATGttatttatttttatttatttatttattttgagatggattctcgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggctccatcttggcccactgcaacccccgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgagattacaggtgtgcatcaccatgccgggctaatttttgtgtttttggtagagacgaggtttcgccatgttggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgatgtcaagtgatctgcccatcttggcttcccaaagtgctggaattagaagcatgaaccaccgcccccgcccCTGTCCGAACATTTTTAAACCACTATGCAGCTTACCACTCCTGTGGGACAAGAGTGCCTGGTCCTATGATTTCAGCTGGGGTGCTGGCCGTAATCTCTGGGAATCTGATTAGTTAGCTAGGGCCAGGCCTAATTTATTAATGAATGCATTAATAAATTACTGTTCTggccaggcacggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagccctttgggaggccaaggggggcagatcatgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaatcccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcgtggtgacgggtgcctgtagtcccagccactccggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggcggaggttgtagtgagcagagatcgtgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaaaaaaaTCCCTggctgggcgtggtggctcaagcctgtaatcccaacactttgggaggctgaggtgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagactatcctggctaacatggtgaaaccccatctctacaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccgggtgtcatggcacgtgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagagttgtttgaacccaggaggcggaggttgcggtgagctgagatcgctccgctacactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagcctacgtctcaaaaataaaaaaaaaaTaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcatagtggcgggcacctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggatgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagattgcaccactacattccagcctgggcgacagagcaagactctgactcaagaaaataaaaataaaaataaataaaaaTTGTgccggatgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagtccatcctggctaacgtggtgaaactccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaaactagtcggacgtggtggcgggcacctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaacccaggaggcggagcttgcaatgagtggagattgcgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacacagctaggccccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTTAACACTAATTTGTGGGGGAGTTGCAGGAAATCTGCCTTGGAATTCAGGAGAAAGGCTTACTCCATGGTATTTTCTGGACAGACTACAAAACTTATTCTGTGTAATAGTTGCCTATCAGCTGTTCGCCCTCAACTTATTTTTAGGAGGCATTGTGAGCCCTTCTCAAGTACTGTAAAAGTTTTTCAGTTCTGCAAAGGAAAGGAACTTGTGTTTGGGCTTTTGAGTGCTGACTGCATGTGCTGTGATACTTTTGCCTTTGTCATGGAACCATGATCTTTAAAGTGGTTCTGGAAAAATGGTTATGGGCCTGTTCTTTGTCTTGAGATTATTCTTGGTGGAGAGAGAAATAGCTGCTTGCTGTAAACAACTGGACACAGTAGCTGTCCTTGTCTGACATCTGCTTTGCTCAGCTGAAACATCTGCCTCATTGGCTGTTGTGGGTGTCTCTGAAGCTCATGTTGAATTGCTGTCAAATGCCCAGCGTGTTCTTGGTGGTGACACAGCCACATTGTGTAAATACATTTCTTAAGTCATTTGTGTGTATAGCAGCTGGATTTGGGGACAAGCATTTGGGCACACTCGCTACAAGATTGGTTAGTGATTATGGATGATGAAGTCTGTCGGAAAATTCAGATCTTGATTGTGAGTTATCTTACTTGTCTTTTAAGTTCTCTTTCATCCATTTGGCTCAGGGGACACAGCAGACATCTTCCTGGCCTTAAATAGCTTTCTTTCTGCCAGGTAAGAGAAGTATGATGAGTGCTTTGAAAGAAAAATACTGAGTTCTCTGGGGTGGAGTGTGGTTAACCAGGGTCAGTGGGGGTCACCCCAAACTTATTTAAGGCTTGAGCCGCTGCATCTGGGTGTAtttttttttttttttttgagacagagtcttgctcttgttgccaaggctggagtacaatggtgcgatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctccttggttaaagcgatactcctgcctcagcctccctagtagctgggactacaggcgcgtgccaccacgccggctaatttttgtacttttagtagagatggggtttcacaatgttggccaggttggtctcgcactcctgacctcaagtgatccagccgcctaggcctcctaaagtgctgagattacagttgtgagctaccacacccagctGGGCTTATTATTTTTAATCCATTGACAAAATCTTTTCAGTTTCTGTTTCTAACTGGTGAAACTAGATAGTAACATTAATCTATAATCATAGTTTTCCTCTAAATATTAACTAAATATTTTATCCATTTAAAACACTGttttcttctcttttttttgagacagggtcttgccctgttgcctagactggaatgcagtggtgtgatctccgctcacctcccaggctcaagggaacctcagtctctcgcacagctgggactagaggcacataccaccatacccggctagtttttgtatttttttgtggaggtagggttttgtcatgttgcccaggctggtctcgaactcctgcgctcgagtgatcttcctgcctcctgctgtagcctcccgaagttgctgggattacaaatgtatgctactgtgcctagccTTAAAACACTTATCTTGACCGCAGAGGAGGTCTACACAAAAAGAAAGAAAAAAAAAAAGCTGTCTGCTTCAggctgggcacggtggttcacacctgtcattctagcacttcgggaggcagaggtgggaggatcacatgaacccaggagttacagaggagcctgggcaacatagtgaggctctcatttctacaaaaaatttaaagattagctgaacaaaaattagctggtgcatgcctgtgctcccagctactggggagcctgaggcgggaggatctcttgagcccggggattcaaggctgcagtgagccatgattgcaccacttcattccagcctgggcaacagagcaagaccctgtgtcaaaaaaaaaaaaGTTTTCATCAAATTTCTGCAATTAAAAAAATTAGAggccgggcgcggtggctcaggcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcagcagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcttggtggcgggcacctgtagtcccagctactggggaggctgaggcttgaaaccaggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccaagattgcaccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagacaacgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGGCAATTAGAATGAGACTTTTGTTTTTATTTTCTGTTCTCTGTGACTCAGTAAACTTCTTAGAGAAAGAACTCTTGGAGAAAAGGGAGAGACCTGTCACTTCCTTTCTGCATGGACTGTGGTATTCCTGCCCCACCCCTGCCGAAATGTTAATGAGCTGTGCAAACTACTGCTGGATTGTTTTGTTCTTCCCCCTAATCAGAGTTTCCACTCAGGACTGGGTAGCCTGTGGACTCCCTGGAGGACAGATAGGTGTGGCAGCCTCAGTGGCCTAGAGTGGACAGCTGGTTTACCGATAGTCCttttttttgagacagagtcttggtctatcacccgggctggagtgcagtagtacgatcttggctcaccacatcccctacctcccaggctgaagtgattctcgtgcttcagccttcccagtagctgagactataggcagacaccaacatacccacctaattttgtatttttagtagagtcggggtttcaccatgttggccagcctggtcttgaactcctgtcctccagtgatctgtccacctcggcctcccaaaatgctgggtttataggcacgagtcaccgcgGGCTTACTGATAGTTCTGTAGGCCAGGGGAATAATCCGTTTGAATAACCATATATGAGGTATTGTGTTTATCTTTCTTTCTTCAAGTTATTCTTGGTGTCAGCTCCttttttttttttttttctgagacagagtctcgctctgtcgtccaggctggagtgcaatggcgctatctcagctcactgcaacctctgccccccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattactgatgcacatcaccacgcctggttaattttttgtatttttagtagagatggagtttcaccatgttggccaaattggtctcgaactcctgaccttgcgatccacccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagctaccacgcccATCCCGTGTCAGGTCTTTTACCTTAATTAATACGTATTGTATTGACAAATTTTCTTTTCTTTCTGAGCCCTCACttttttttttttttttgaaacaaggtctcactctgttgcccaaactggaatgtagtgataatgatcacagctcactgcagcctcaacctcttgggctcaagctaacctcccacctcagcctcccaggtagctgggactacaagcacatgccactacacctaattttattttactttttgtagagatggggtctccccatgttgcccagactggtctcgaacacctggcctcaagtcatcctcctgcctcagcctcccaaagcactaggattataggcgtgaaccaccctgcccggccATGAAGTTAAATTTTTGGTTATTAGCTTGTTGAGTTCTGTTTTCTGTTTTTTTAAATAGCCACATGGCCTGACTCTCTGTGGTCAATGGTATGGATGCTAAAGTAGAGCAAGGACAGTGCCCTGCTCAAGTCTCTCTGACCTGGGTCCATGGGGATTTTCTCTGCCAGTCAGGTTCCTGAAGCTCTGGCTACGGCTCCTGGTATTTTTAATGACCGCAGTAGAGAAAAACATTGGTATCTTCTTGCTGTTGATGAGCAAATCTTTGGACCTGTCTCATGGTGTCTTTATTTGCAAACTGGTTGAATCATGAACTGCCTGGCTTTGGCTGCCTTGCCGTTGTGGCTTTTAATAACTACCCCTATTTCTGGTGGCTCAGTCAAGTTTCCAAAAAGGAAGTCTTACCTGGAGATCCTGTGAAGGAATTCCTGACCAGCTTTTTAATTTTCCAAAGACAGGCCTTATTCGTGTTAAACACACACCCCTTTTCTGTGGCCAGGCCGGTGTGAAAGCATGTGCAGAGGCTGTATAGCAGTAAGAGTTCCCACCCCTTGGGGCATTTTCATTGTCACCACATTGTCTGACTTTGGAGACGACCCCTTTTAAACTCTGGCATTTGCTCAGGTAAGTATTTGGGGAGTATTGTTATAAATGCTGTGCATATCCGTTTTTTCCCCACAGTGGAAAGGAAAATGAttttttttttttttgagtcggagtcttgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggtgccatctcggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcacaccattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggcacccgccaccacgcccggctaattttttctatctttagtagagatggggtttcaccgtgttagctaggatggtctcgatctcctgaccttgtgatccacccgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggtcGGAAAATGATTTTAATGGATGGTTTTGAGGAAGCTGGTGATTATTTTGTAATGGAGAATTGTAACATGCCAGGGGTTTGGCTCTTCTTTCAGTATTTCTTCAGGCTACCACAAAACTCCACTATTGATATTCTTCCAAAAATAAACAAAACACTAAAAGGACTCCTGCCTTTGGAACAAAATAGCTTCATATTAAGGTAGCTTTGAGGCACAAACCAAGCTGCCTGTGGAGAAGCTGGTTCTTCCTCTAAAACTTACATGAACCTCTGACCCCACTCCCCCTTACTAACGGTTTTCTTTTCTCTTTTGATTTTCTATTTtatactttttattttggactacttatagattcacaaaatgttgtaaaaatagcacagggctggaccctgaagtctgcttccctgaatggtaacCtctttttttttttttttttttttttgagacggaattttgcttttgttgcccaggctggagtggaatggcacgatcttggccactgcaccctctgcctcccaggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcaccaccacgcccggctaatttttttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtctcaaactcccgacctcaggtgatctgcccgcctcagcctcccaacgtgctgggattacaggcatgagccatcgcgctcgaccAATAACTACCATTTCAAATTCCCACGACTATTGTACTGCAGACCTGTTATCGTATATTCTCACCAACACATTTTAAAATGCTTAACTTTTAGGCTGGGCGTGGcccacactttgggaggctgaggcaggcagatcacttgggccctggagtttgagaccagcctgggcaacgtggcgaaactctgtctctacaaaaaatacaaaaatttgcccggcgcggtgatgcacacctgtggtcccagctactttataggctgaggtgggagaatctctcgaacccagcaggaggaggttgcagtgagcctagatcaccactgccctccagcctgggccacagagtgagaccctgtctcaagatcagataaaatgaaaTGCTTAACTTTTGTTAATGTCATTGGTCCTGCTGTGTCTATGAGTGAGACTGAGTGTGTTTCCCCTGGGCACCGGCCACTGGCGTGTGCTCTTCAGTGAACTGCCCAGTTATGAATTCGTTTCCTGTTTCCCCACTGGGGTCCTTGCCTTTCTTTTGTGGGTTTGTGAAAACCCTAAGAATATTTATCCTGGTTTGTTTTGTGGAGCTAACAAcaatcttttggcttccctgggccacgttggaagaattgtcttgggccacacataaagtacactaacactaatgatagctgatgagctgaaaaaaaaaaattgcaaaaaaatctgtgaatgttttaagaaagtttctgaatttatgttaggccacacttcaagccatcctgggccgagggttggacaagcttgGGTTAGACATTTCATAATATATTTAGTTCATCAGTGTTTTTCTTAATGATTTCCACCTTTGGGGTCATGCGTTCAAGACTTTCCCTAACAATACATAAACATTCTCTTCTATTTTCTTTTAGTTTAATGTTTGTTAAAAATAATGTTTACATTTTTggccaggcgcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgagaggcttaggtgggcagatcacgaggtcagcagttctagaccagcctgatcatcatggtgaaaccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgcggtggtgggtgtggtggtgggtgcctatagtcccagccactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccaagatcacgccattgtactcccgcctaggtgacagagcaagattctgtctcaaaaaaataataataataataataatGTTTACATTTTTAATTCATTTGGAGTTTATCTTGATTGGTGGAtttttttttttttttgtgacgaggtctcactctcacccaggctggagcacagtggtgcagtctcggctcaccgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaagcagttctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtaggtggTGGCttttttttttttttttttttttgagatagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatcttggctcactgcaagctctgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactaaaggtgcccgccaccacacccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcaatctcctgaccttgtgatccgcccgctttggcctcctaaagtgctggtattacaggcgtgagccaccatgcccagccAGCTGGTGTTTTTTTTTTTTCGATCGATTGGtgttttgttttgttttgttttgtttttgtttttttctttttttgagatgggggtcttgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacgatcttggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggctcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagttgggattataggcgcatgccaccatactcatctaatttttttattttagcagaggtggggtttcaccatgttgttcaggctggtctcgaactcctgacttcgtgatctgcctgcctcggcctccgaaagtgctgggattacaggcgcaaaccaccacgcccggtcAGTTGGTGGTTTTTTAATTGATTGATTGTTGGttttgttgttttatcgatgttttgttctgttttgttttgttttgagacagagctttactctgtgtcaccaggctggagggcagtggcgtgatcaccactcattgcagcctccacttcctggcttcaagtgaccctcccacctcagctcctgggtagctaagaccacaggcgtgtgccaccacaccgggctgattttttttttctttctttttagaaacggtctcaccgtgttgcccaggctggtcttgaactgaactcaagctttccatgcgcctcggcctggcaaagtgctgggattatagacatgagacaacactcccagccTTATTAATGAttttttttttttaagagaagtcttgctgttgtccctcaggcttgagtgcgatggctcaatctcggctgactgcaacctctgcctcccaggttcaaacaattctcctgcccttgactcccaagtgactgggattaaggtgcccgccaccacgcccgactaatttttgtattttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtactccgcctgccttggcctcccaaagggctgggattataggcgtgagccaccgcgcctggccTTATTAATGATTTTTAAATCAGTTTCTCACAAACTCTTTTGATCTTAGATCAGTCTGTGTTTTTCATAAATGCCTCAACGGCTGGCTCGGTTTTAGAAACCTGTGTTTGTCAGTTAAAATGATGATCCTCCCAAAAATGTTCAGTGCCATTTTCTACCCTGACCTGGGTTCGCCCAAGTGGTGGGAGAGTCCCCATGGAGGCACTGCGGGGCCTGACTGTCTGGGAACCCTCTCAGAGTGGAGCCCAGTGCTGGGTTCAGGTGGGTGCTCATCTGGTTAAGTCAATTGCCTGCATTGTTTTGCGTCCCGTAATGGGGCTTTGCCTTCTGAAGCCTCTGTTTCTGTCTTCCCTCACACGTATGTGATATGTCTTATTTCATTCTGCTCTGCAGGTGAGGACACTGGACCAATTGTAGATGCTCACAAGACACAGATGACCCAAATCCCCAACCGTGTTACTAATGAGCATTTAGAGAGTTTTTTCCCTTTGTCCTTCTAAATCTTGTTACAGAGATGGTCCGTGCATGGGGGAAATGTTTGTCCTTTCGGCCAGGCTCTCCAATTCAAAAGGCAGGAATTGAGAAAATGACAGTACTTTCTCTGTCCCTGCCACAGAATGTCCAGTTTGGTCTGATTTAACATGACAAATCATGCTGTAGAGATAAGTAAGTAGTTTGAATTTTATTTTTCCTTTAATTTTTAGAAGCCACCTTATAACTCGACCATTCTAGTCACATTTTTTTCATATAGATTGTATACTTTATATACTCCATGCTTATCCACATAGAGAATACTTCTGGAAGGACCCATATGAAACTGGTACCATGCTTCCCCTCTTGAGCCTGGGAGCCACAAGATGAAAGGAGATTTACCCTTTTATAGTTTTTAAGTTTTGTGGGtttttttgaaacagggtcttgttctgttgcccaggatggagtgcagtgtcctggccatcgctcactgcagccttgacctcccgggctcaagcaatcctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagttgggactataggtgcccaccaccacacctggctgatttttgtatttttgggtagagaagaagtgtcccctgttgcccaggctggtctcaaactcctaggctcaagcgacccacctgcctcagtcccccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgaggcagtgcacctggccCTTTTAAATGTTGtatatatttattactgattttttaaaattataaatCCAAACTACATTAATAGTAATTGTCTTGCAGGGTCCTTTGGTCATAGCTTACATATTAGAAGAAGGATTAAGAAAGGGAGTGATATAATTTACTAGCTTGAGGTCTGCATTTGGATTGACTTTACTAAGCTTGCTGTGAACTCCAAGGAACAGAAAACCCAGAATACAGGCCGGGCGGCATCTTCAGAGGAAGAGGCCCTTTCCCCTTTGCCTTGCTTGCTTCCAGGCTGGCTGTGGGGGGATGCAGTCTCCCCTTGAGGGTCAGGAGATGTCTGGCCATCATCTGGTAGTTAGAGTGGGATGAACCGAACAAGGGCAGACTTCTCGGTCTGTTCTTCTCTGcttggctccaccctggaatcagctggagagtgccagcagctgctcctgactgggaccccacacccaaagtggccaacttagtccttctgggggtggcatcaggattgcgaaagcacccaagttattttcatgtggagccaccactgagagtcaTGTCTTTGGGAGGATCTAAGTTCCTGACCTGCCACCTTCGCAGGCTGCCTGAGCTGCACTTGACAAGTGGCTTTATGATCCCTAGGTCCACCTGGGCTTGCGAAGGCACAGATTCCCCGTCCACAGCTCACGACCAGATGCACCAGCAGGAGTCCACATCGAGGACGTCCTCCGGGCACTCCCACGACCAGGTAGGTGAGGACTGGTGGGCCCGTGGCTGGATGGGTGGTGTTTTCAGATTCCTGGTGGTGGCGGTTGATGCCCCTCCTTGAGTAGTGCTTTCCTGCACGCTTTCTTTGATGCTCTAGCTCCCACCAGATGAGGACAGCTGAGGCTCAGAGCTCGAATTTCTTGGCTGCAATTTTAAAGCTCTTAAGTTTAAAGCCGTAAAGATAGAAATCCAGAATTATAACATTCTGGTTCTTACTCCGTTTTTTTCTTTCCTTTGCCAAAGGAATCTATGttttatttatttattatttaaaaaaaatttttctttttagacggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaagctccacctcccgggttcacgccgttctcctgccgcagcctcctataggcgcatgccgccacacccagctaattttttgtattcttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatgctctagatctcctgacctcgtgatcctcccacctcggcctctcaaagtgctgggactacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccAGGAATCTATGTTTTAAACATTTCACACATCCCTTCCTTGGGGACATGGTGGCTAGATTTGCTGAATTAATGGCCGTCTCCTCTTCTTCCAGCCCTGGCCCCAGCCCCTCAGGCCCTGGCAATGAGGCACTCCTACGTTCTGTTGCTGGCTTTTTCCCTAGTTACCTTTTCCAGACAACCCACGTCCTGCCTTCCCCACCCCCATGCCAGCTGCTTGGGTTTAATGAGGTCCTTGGTCGCGACTCATTGTTTGATTTTCCGTGTTCTAACTCACTGCCTTTGATAAGCACACCTTTTCTGACTTCCAAGATGTTAAAACTTAAGCCTCAGCACCTAGGAGAATGCACACATTTTTTCTTATTGTGGTAAAATGTACATAACGtaaaatttgccattagtaacatttggtatgatcacagcattttgtaaccatcaccactattttcatcatcccacaaagaaaccctcagcccatagcagtcattcccgactctccctgttccgcacctggcccccacgagtctactccctgcctctgtggatttgcctgttctgggcgtttcacactacaggggaccttcgtgtcctagtcattgcatttagcataattttataatgtgtcagaattttagtttttaccatggctgaaaaacacaccactgcattatggtgtaattatgcactgtattatggataggccacattttgtttatccattcatatgttttgttttgttttgtttttgagaaggagtctccctctattgcccaggctggagtgcaatggtgcaatcttggctcactgcaacttccacctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaagcgcctgccaccatgcccatctagtttttttgtatttttagtagagatggctttcaccatattggccaggctggtctcgaacgcctgacctcgtaatcctcccgccttggcctctcaaagtgttgggatcacaggcgtgagccactgcgcccagccgatacgttcatatgttgttggacatctgggttgtttctacattttggctgttgttaataatgaaccaatatgaacatttatttacaagtttttgtttgagcctctgCAGTAGGGtttttttttgttttgttttttttgagatggggtcttgctctgtcacccaggtggcagtgcagtggcgtgatctcagctcactgcagcctccacccccctgggctctagtgatcttcctaccccagcctccgggtagctgagaccacgggcgagcgccgccatacccaactaatttttttggtatttttagtagagacagagtctcgccacattgcccaggctgttctcaaactcctgaggtcaagcactccactcactcggactcccagagtgctgcgattacaggcataagccaccatgcctagccAGGtttttttttttttttttttttttttttaagagatggggtcttggccaggcgtggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcagtttgggaggccagtgcgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcatggtggcggacgcccatagtcccagctattcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacgggggaggcagagcttacagtgagccaagatcatgccactgcactctagcctgggcgacagaatgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagagatgggtctctctgttgcccaggctagagtgcggtggcatgatcagagctcactgcagcctcgagcaatcctcaagggatcctcctgctttggcctcccaaagtactggcattacaggcatgagccaccgtgcTGGCCATGTCTCTGTttttctgttttttgttttttttttttttttgagacagagtctcactgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatcttggctcactacaacctctgcctcccaggttcaagccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgccaccatgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagatgcggttttcaccatgttgtccaggatggtctcaatctcttgaccttgtgatctgcctgcctcggcctctcaaaagtgctgggattacagccgtgagccaccgtgcccggccGGAAAGTctgtttttaattcttgtgggtgtacacctaggactggacttgctggagagtatggtagttctgtgtttaactttttgaggatctgccagactgtgtttcacagcagcggcatcattttacagtcccaccagcaacgtacgatgttctgatttctccacatcctcacccagactcgtcgtttttcccttttaaaattaaagccattctagtgTCATACACAGGTTATTAAGTGAGTTACTTTTATTATATAATTAGGCAAAGACAAAGTCCGAGTGAACAGTTTAAAACAAAAGCCAGCAGTCCCTTATCTCTCTGTCTTCCTGACCCTTCCCCAGAGGGTGCGGCTTTCAGCTCAGCTTTTCCTCGCCTTCCCTCGCTGACCTCCGCACGCCCTCTTTCATCTTTCACCCCTCCCTTTGCTGTGAACTGTTGACTTCCTTTTTGGGTAGGTGAAGGTTTTACCTCAAATCTGCATGATCACGTCCAGTCTCTCAGTATGATGTgttaggacatcggtttggttgtttaaaaggaaccaaaataacaaaaatcttgcctgagacaaaatggaagtttgtttttttctcgttttatacagtcgaagcagctcaggctgggtggtggtggttggcagatatcaggggccctgtgcctttcccatgttcaaatgtgttttccgttttggtttctaagacggcgactgccggtttccccaccgcatccacccccggtccggccagcaggaaccaggggaaggagagggcatgtttttcccctcagaattggggctcagaagttactcccagcacCGAGCTCACTCAACACAGCTGTCCCCTGTCCTCCCCTGCGGACTTCTGTTTGaatatattttattttatttttttCTAGTTAGTCTGTGCTTATCCATGAACATATTTTATTaataataattaggtagtgtttgaatgtttactgtgtatcatatgatcttataagtactttatatgcatttaatttttttttttgagacggagtgtcactctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcactggcgtgatctcggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacgccattctccagcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccgtgccctgctaattttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccgagttagccaggatggtcttgatctcctgacctcgtgatccgcacgcctcggcctgccaaagtactgggattacaggtgtgagccaccacgcccggctacatttaattatttaatccttagaacaggcttctaaagtagatattgtttgttttacagataaggaaactgaggcacagttcagtcaaagcacatgtcctggtcacacagctagggaggtgcaagcctgcccgcccagagcccatcttcactccgggtACTTTGAATTTTGGGTCTGTGGCCCTCCAGGGAGTCCATGTGTGCGCACCTGGGTCACCTTTTCCATCTGTGCTTGAGGCTGGTGGAAGGTGGCTCAGATATGCTCAGAGGCTGAGTAGGTGGGGCTTAGTTAACACTGCCCTGGAGCTCATTGAGCATTTCCTGGGTTCGGCAGGCAGGAAGCACCAGCGTGTTCTGGATGAAAATAGTTCCTGCCTGCTGGCTCTCCACAGCTAACTCGCCTTTCCACACTAATTAGAGACCTTCTTAAGTATAATCTGTTAAGACTGACACCCTAAACATTTATTTAGCTTTTATTTCCTGGGCTGGTGGCCCATAGTTAGAGCTGCAGCCAGTCCCCAAGAAGCCGACGCCAGCAGACCCCTCTGTGCTGCAGCTTTGTGCCGTGGGACTGCTGGCCTCGCCGACCTCTTGCTTTATCGACACAGTGACCAGGAGTTAAACTTTGGGATGTGCCCGTGATGTTGGACCACAAGGACTTAGAGGCCGAAATCCACCCCTTGAAAAATGAAGAAAGAAAATCGCAGGAAAATCTGGGAAATCCATCAAAAAATGAGGATAACGTGAAAAGCGCGCCTCCACAGTCCCGGCTCTCCCGGTGCCGAGCGGCGGCGTTTTTTCTTTCATTGTTTCTCTGCCTTTTTGTGGTGTTCGTCGTCTCATTCGTCATCCCGTGTCCAGACCGGCCGGCGTCACAGCGAATGTGGAGGATAGACTACAGTGCCGCTGGTGAGCCTCGGCTTCCCCGCCCAGTGGGGTCCAAAGCAGCTCTTCCCAGGGGATGGGGCGGAGGGGGCAGAACTGTGTCTGCGAGTCTAGAAGTGGCCTTTAAACAGTGAATCAATCCCAAGAGGCTGCCAGTTCTATGTCCAAGGTTTTCCCGGAGTTTTAGGGAGCGATAGACCAGCCtttttatttttgagatggagtttcgctcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcactggcacaatctcagctcaccgctacttctgcctccggagttcaagcgattctcccgcctcagcctcccaaatagctgggattacaggcgtgcagcaccacgcccagctaatatttgtatttttagtagagaccgggtttcaccatgttggtcagggtggtctcgaactcctgagctcgtgatccgcccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgagattacaggcgtgagccacagcgcctggccctaattttgtatttttggtaaagatggggttttaccatgttagccaggctgctcttgaactcctgattttaagtcatcctcctccctcggcctcccaacgtgctgggattacaggtgtaagtcaccacacctggcccaattcagtgatttgtagtcagtttgtagagttatgtagctgtcagtacaattccgttttagaatatttccatcatccctaaaagaTTGCTCAAGAGGCTGGGCACagaccgcatctctacaaaaaatacaaaaatcagccaggcgtggtggcatgcagctgtggtcccagctacttgggaggctgaggtaggagtatcatttacacctggaaggttgaggctgcagtgagctgtgatcgtgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagagagaccctgtctcaaaaagagaaaaTTCCTCATTATCtttgccatcactccctgttccctcctctcctagccctgggcaacctagtctcctgtctccaaagattagtctttttatttttttagacagagttttgctcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcacaatctccgctcatctcaaccgccacctcccaggttcaagtgattctcctgccccagcctcccgagtagctgggattgcaggcatgcaccaccacgcccagctaattttgtatttttagtacagatggggtttctccgtgttggtcaggctggtctcaaactcccgacctcagatgatctgcccgcttaagtctccaaaaagggctgggattaccggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggcctctagacatttcttagaagtgaaatcatacagtatgtaagtgaaggagtgtgacttccttaacttagcgtgatgttttgccgttcgtttgtgtcgtggtctgtctgtgtctttccgttgctgagcagtgctcctgggagggttggctgacgatcacctggatggctctcagttgagactcttatgaataattctgccgtgaacattcacgtgcagatcttcgtgtggatatgttttcatttctcttgggtagattgctaggagtggaattgctgaaccctatggtaagtttatgtttaactttctgaggagctgacaagctgttttctaaagcgactgcaccatttgactattttccattcctactacaatgctgaggaggcctttagtttcttgttattgtctgtcttcttattacactcatgctagtgggtgtgaattagaatctcccagtgactgaaaatgttgggtccctcttttcgtgtgagttttagccattcttgcatcttctttggtgaatgtctattcttgcatcttctttggtgaatgtctattcttgcagtcttttgcccatttttAGAAATTAAAAATAatttatttttatttatttatttatttattttttgagatggagttttgctcttctaccccaggctggagtgcaatggcgcaatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagtagctgggattacaggcacaggctaccatgcctggctaatttttttttttttttttttgagacagagtttcgctcttgtttcccaggctggagtgcaatggcctgatctcagctcaccgtaatcgccacctcccagattcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgaaactacaggcatgtgccaccacacccggctaattttgtatttttagtagaaacggggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtcttgaattcccgaccttaggtgattggcctgcctcagcatcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcacgtgccaccacgcttggccgtaacttttgtatttttagtagatgcgaggtttcaccatgttggccaggctgatctcaaactcctgacctcaagtgatccgcctgccttggcttcccaaagtgctaggactaccggtgtgaaccaccacgcccagcctttccactctcttgatagtgtccttcgatgcataaaagcttttagtttcaatgaagtcttttttttttttttttttttttttttggagacagtcttgctctgtcatccaggctggagagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctccacctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggtgcccgcctccatgcctggctaatgtatgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatattggccaggctggtctcaaactcttgacctcaggtgatccacccgcctcggcctcccatagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcactcagcctcctgtgcttttgtatcaaagaaaccatcaccagatcccttgtcatgaagatttttcccgttttttttttctaagagttttataattttagctcttacgtttaggtctttgattcattttgagttcatttttgtgcatgacgtaaagattcaacttcatgctgggcgcagtggctcacacctgtaattccagcagtttcagaggctgagacaggaggatcacttgaggcctcgagttcaaggccagcctgggcaacgtagccagaccctgtctctaaaataaGGGGGACGGGGTTCAACTttattcttttttttttgtttgtttgtttttgagatcgagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcggtggctcaatctcaactgactgcagcctccacctcctgggttcaggcgattctcctgccttagcctcccgagtagctggaactataggcgcccgccaccacgcccggctaatttctgtatttttagtagagaaggtttcaccgtattagccaggcttgtctcggactcctgaccttgtgatccacccgcctcggcctcctaaagtgctaggattacaggcgtgagccacctcacccggccTAttttttttttttttttttattgatcattcttgggtgtttctcgcagagggggatttggcagggtcatacgacaatagtggacggaaggtcagcagataaacaagtgaacaaaggtctctggttttcctaggcagaggtccctgcggccttccgcagtgtttgcgtccctgggtacttgagattagggagtggtgatgactcttaacgagcatgctgccttcaagcatctgtttaacaaagcacatcttgcaccgcccttaatccattcaaccctgagtggacacagcacatgtttcagagagcacagggttgggggtaaggtcaccgatcaacaggatcccaaggcagaagaagttttcttagtacagaacaaaatgaaaagtctcccatgtctacttctttctacacagacacagcaaccatccgatttctcaatcttttccccacctttctcccctttctattccacaaaaccgccattgtcatcatggcccgttctcaatgagctgttgggtacacctcccagacggggtggtagccgggcagaggggctcctcacttcccagtaggggtggccgggcagaggcgcccctcacctcccggagggggcagctggGCCCGGCCTAtttttttgtttttgttttttgagatggactccagctctgtcggccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcaatctcgctcactgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaaacgattcttgtgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcacgtgctactacacccagctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacagggtttcacacgttggccaagatggtctcaatctcttgacctcgttatctgccctcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgaggcaccttgcccggccAACTTCACTCTTTTGGTGTTTGATTTTAGGGCATAAAGTTTATCACTTGAGTCCTTGAATGAAAGGAAGTGTAAACCCTGACGAGTATGGAGTGTGGACTGTCTAGATGCCCCCTGGTCTAGGGAGGGATTTATCCCTGAACAGAAGGTGCCAGAACATCCAATTCTTAATGCCCAGATGTCCTGCTTGTTCCTTTCTGAAGGTTAACACTAGGCATTGTTGCCCACCCCCTGGTTTTCACGAAGGAAATTACTCATCCTAGTGAGGAAGAAGCCACCGTCCTCGTTGGGTGCCCTCACAGTGGCAGGTTCCATGTAGCAGAGAAGTAGGTCGTGCTGGACCTGATCGTTCCTGGAAACCAGGCATGGCCCGCGGAGTATAGTCTGTGGTTTTCTCTTTCAGTTATCTATGACTTTCTGGCTGTGGATGATATAAACGGGGACAGGATCCAAGATGTTCTTTTTCTTTATAAAAACACCAACAGCAGCAACAATTTCAGCCGATCCTGTGTGGACGAAGGTAATTTCATTTTATATGAAAAAGGCGGAGCTCCCTGTAGAAAGAGGAATCGTCATTTTGGGTCACCCTCTCGCTTTCAGTGTTTGGGGGAAGCAGATGGTGGTGTTTCTGGAACCCATCTCGTCATCCTTCCTGGCAGACCAGAAAGAGGCCTGGAAGCCCAGTCCCAGCACTGCCCTGGCCCCTGAGCCCCGTGGGGTCAGCATTAGAGCCCCGGGAGCCTGCAAGATACAGGAGATCCACCTGGCGGGAGGGGCTGTGGCCTAGGAGAGGTGTGAGGAAAACAGACCTGGAACAGCACATGCTGGGGCTGGCCGGCCTGCCTGCCCAGATGGTGCAACAGTGAGGTGCCGGTGTCTCTCCCTACAGGCTTTTCCTCTCCCTGCACCTTTGCAGCTGCTGTGTCGGGGGCCAACGGCAGCACGCTCTGGGAGAGACCTGTGGCCCAAGACGTGGCCCTCGTGGAGTGTGCTGTGCCCCAGCCAAGAGGCAGTGAGGCACCTTCTGCCTGCATCCTGGTGGGCAGACCCAGTTCTTTCATTGCAGTCAACTTGTTCACAGGTAGGCCAGCCAGGCAGCGGGGTTCTCACTGAGGGCCTCTCACCTGAGCCACCTCACCCTGAGGGCTAATGCCAGGAGGCCGCGACGAGGCTCAGCCCTGTGATCTTGAGGGTGGCTGGATGGGAAGGAAGGTTATGGGGAGAACCTCCAAGTGAGGCTGCAAGCGTGTGGAAGGCACACGCCTCGGCTGCCTTCAGCTGCACTGTGTCTGTTACCTCCCGTTACACCTTGCTGGTGGGCTGTAACACACAGGGGCAGTCCGATGTCACCTGCCATGGGGTAGCAGAGAGGAGGAGCGGCTTGGCCCCCGGCTGCTCCTGGGGTGTCAGTGGTGGCAGTGCCCAGGGCGAGCCCAGAACATGAACCAGCACTCGGCCCGTCAGGGGAGATCGGGGCCTGTCAGTGCCCCTAAGCCTGAAGGTGCAGGTCTCCGAGCCCCAGCGGAGCCGGCCTCGTGGAAGGACGAGGGAAAGAATGCGTGGTGCACGGGGCCATGTGTGTGTGTGGGCTCCTTGCACCTCATCGCGGTCTGGAAGATTTCTGTGCCTAGATTTGGTGAATGTTCATATTTCCCTTACAAGCTGTCATTTTAAGGATATGGAGGAGAATAAAGAGCAGGCTGAAAATATTTTAAGAATCAAGGAATCTGTCTTTAAAAAAAGGTTTGGATGAGATTGTATGTGCGTAAGGAGTTGGACGAGGACCTGTGGTCAGTAGATCTGCCTCCGGGCGCACACCTCCATTCTTGCCTTCTATGTGGAGGGCAGATGAAGGGGCCACTCAGCTGGGGCCTGCATGGCACCAAGGGCACGCCTGCAACCCCAGCAGGAGGCAGGGGCTTCGAGAGGTGGGTGAGGTCAGGCTTCATCCACTCGGGCAGGAGGGTCAGCATGGGCCCTAGAGGTTCCAGGACACGCAGATAGGAGAAAAGGAAGGGGGAACTCTGCGGTTCCCAGGAATGAGGCTGTCAGCGTTTGGCATATTGCCACCGAGTCTCCATACACGGGCAGGACGTGTGTCCACCACCTCCGCGTGCTGCTCCTTCACGAGCACAGGAGTGCCGCCCTCCCCTCCTGTTGGCATCTGCTCTGAGTGTGCAGTGAGCCGTGGGCTCACGAGGGTGATGCCTCAACAGGAGCCTGCCTGTCACAGGCCTTGCAGTTGCCGGGCTGCTGTTGAAGGGGACTCAGGGCCACGTTCCGTGACCGTGTGCTTGATTCTAGGGGAAACCCTGTGGAACCACAGCAGCAGCTTCAGCGGGAATGCGTCCATCCTGAGCCCTCTGCTGCAGGTGCCTGATGTGGACGGCGATGGGGCCCCAGACCTGCTGGTTCTCACCCAGGAGCGGGAGGAGGTACATCCCAGCCTGGCTCTGCTCCCAAGTCACGAGGCCACCTGCCACACGGCCCTGCTCTACCTCCCCATCTGCTGCCACTTCCCAGACAGGATTCGGGTCTGACCACTTGCCGGGGACTCGCCCAGAGCCCCACGTTCCCAACTCCCATAGACCCAGCATACTCAGGGGGCTCCATCTCTACCAGGCAGCTTTGGGGCCTCCCCAAGAATGGTGGAGTACACACTTCCCATTTGTGCTGTTGCAGTGTTGGGGGTGAAGCTCTGAGGGCTGGGAGCACCTGTGAGGCACTGGGGCTGCCCTGCCTGCCTCATGTGCCCCGTGCAGTGTGGAGGCACCAACCATCGTGGCAGACTCTCTGATGTCAGCGTGTCTTTCCTCAAAACCAAGAGCCTGTGGGCCCCTTACCCTTCCACATCTCCCATTGTAGAGTGCCCCGCCCCCAGGCTCACGTCCCTCTCTTCCTGGGCCTTGTGTCATTGCAGCCCCAGGCTCAGGTCCTTCTCTTCCTGGGCCTTGTGTCCTTGCAGCCCCAGGCTCAGGTCCCTCTCTTCCTGTGTCATCCTGTGTCATTGCAGGTTAGTGGCCACCTCTACTCCGGCAGCACCGGGCACCAGATTGGCCTCAGAGGCAGCCTTGGTGTGGACGGGGAAAGTGGCTTCCTCCTTCACGTCACCAGGACAGGTGCCCACTACATCCTCTTTCCCTGCGGTACGTTGTTTCTGCCACATCCCTGGCCAGCCTCACTCGTGGAGCATGACTGCCCTGCGGCTCCTCAGGTCCTGCTTCTGCTCTCGAGGTGCTGGAGTCAGGAAGCCCAGGGGCCTGGCTCCATGTGGCACTGCGTGCCCCTGGTCCGGGTTCACAGCGTGACCCTGGTGACCTCGGGCCCTTCTGTGTTTTGAATAGCAAGCTCCCTCTGCGGCTGCTCTGTGAAGGGTCTCTACGAGAAGGTGACCGGGAGCGGCGGCCCGTTCAAGAGTGACCCGCACTGGGAGAGCATGCTCAATGCCACCACCCGCAGGATGCTTTCCCACAGGTGGGTCCGGGCCGCAGCCTTTCTCCATGCAGAGCGCCCACCCCATGGCTCTGCTCGCCTGCCTCAGCGTTCGGACAATCTGTGTGGAGCCCAGAGCAGCCCCACCGGCAGGGAGGTGCTCGGGGTACCGCAAGGTCACCCTGGGCTCAGATGTGAGAAATGGTCAAATAAAAGTTGAGTAAAGAGAAGAAAGGTTCCCGACGCTGTGCCTGTCTGTCTCCACGGAAAGTGGGGGTCTTTCTTCTCTTTTCTGTtttttttttttttggttgttttttttttttaagacggagtcttgccctgtcccccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatctcggttcactgcaacctccgcctcccgggttcaagtgattctcctgccccagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcgcgcacctccacgcccagctaatttttgcatttttagtagagacggggtttctccatgttggtcagactggtctcgaacttctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctggaattacaggcatgagccaccgcgcccagctCTTCTCTTTTCAAGCTGTAGAACTGAGAAACGGGTTATGGGGGCCTAAGAGGAGCACCCTGAGACGGGCGGTGCCAGAGCCTCCACTGGGTGCCTGAGGCCGCCCCGGGGACCCGGCGCCCCTTTCTCCCACTCTCCTGTCTAGCTCTGGAGCAGTGCGCTACCTGATGCATGTCCCAGGGAACGCCGGTGCAGATGTGCTTCTTGTGGGCTCAGAGGCCTTCGTGCTGCTGGACGGGCAGGAGCTGACGCCTCGCTGGACACCCAAGGCAGCCCATGTCCTGAGGTACAGGGTTTCCCCAAGGACCGCGCAGGTGCTGCACCCCTTCCCGGCATCCCGGGCACATCCCGTTGGCTGGCGAGGAGACAGCGCTGGGGGTGGGGCCGGAGGCCGTGTGCTGCTGCCCGGGCTTCTTGCCTGTCTCTGGTACTTGCCCCTTGCCCCAGACGTCGGCTCCGTGTCCTGGGCCCTGGTCCAGATGTGGCCATGGGAGACTGAGGGGCGGACGTGTTCCTGGGTGCTTCCTTCATCTCAGTCTCCTCACTGAGACCCCTCGTGAGCGCTTCCTCCATATTGTTCCAGAAAACCCATCTTCGGCCGCTACAAACCAGACACCTTGGCTGTAGCCGTTGAAAACGGAACTGGCACCGACAGACAGGTTCGTTGTTCTTCCTTCGGAGGTGGCACCTTTGTTCTTAGCTGAGGATAGACTGGTCTGAAAGCAGACGGGGCTGCGGCCCAGGAGGCTGCTGCCGTCAGAGCTGCTGAGAAGGTTCTGCCTCCCTCAGAGCATCTGCCTCCAGGGCTGGCATGGCTGAGGGCACGTGTGCCTGTGCAAGCCTCGAGCTTTTCCCGGTAGCCCCCACGTTGGCCCCCACAGTGTCCCCTCCCTCCCCAGATCCTGTTTCTGGACCTTGGCACTGGAGCCGTCCTGTGTAGCCTAGCCCTCCCGAGCCTCCCTGGGGGTCCACTGTCCGCCAGCCTGCCGACCGCAGACCACCGCTCAGCCTTCTTCTTCTGGGGCCTCCACGAGCTGGGGAGCACCAGCGAGACGGTACGGGAGCCACCCTCGGAGCAGCCATGCTGGGAGCCGGGGCCAGAGACCCAGGCTGGAGCTCCACCGTGGAGTGCCCAGAAGCTCATCGGTGCCTGGGCAACCTCACATAAGTTGAAGTCCAGTGACAGTCAGGATGAGGTGGTGCAAGCTGAGGCAAAGTGACCTTAGAGGGGTCCAGCGAGAAGGGGCTGATGGCCTTCGGTGGATAGGGGCGCACACAGCCATGCCCTGAAGGGAGTGGCTGCCGGCAAGGACCAGTGTCAGGACCAGGTGGGGTGGGAGGACCTGGGAGGTGGCCACAGAACTGGGGGCTGGCATTTGGGGGACCCAGATAGGGCCCCTAGCAGACATAGAGCTCCAGGCACGGTCACTCTGACAGCAGTGTCCTGTGGGAGTGCTCAGTGAAGGGCGTGGGGCCCATTGCTGGTTCTCGCTCCAGGAGACCGGGGAGGCCCGGCACAGCCTGTACATGTTCCACCCCACCCTGCCGCGCGTGCTGCTGGAGCTGGCCAATGTCTCTACCCACATTGTCGCCTTTGACGGTGAGTGTGGCCTCGGCCAGGGACCCGGGTGTTCCGCGGGGTCTGCCCTGGCTGGTCCTGAGCCGCCCTGACAGCTGTGTCCCCCACCCTGCAGCCGTCCTGTTTGAGCCAAGCCGCCACGCCGCCTACATCCTTCTGACAGGCCCGGCAGACTCAGAGGCACCCGGCCTGGTCTCTGTGATCAAGCACAAGGTGCGGGACCTTGTCCCAAGCAGCAGGGTGGTCCGCCTGGGTGAGGGTGGGCCAGACAGTGACCAAGCCATCAGGGACCGGTTCTCCCGGCTGCGGTACCAGAGTGAGGCGTAGAGGCACGCCAGCCAGAGCCTGTGGAGAGACTCCGCCTGCTGACACTAAACGTCCTGGGAAGTGGGCCCTTCCCTGGGTCTCTGCACTGACTCCCCCACTCCTGACCCTGGTGATGGTCGCCACTGGGCAGCAGCAGCCTTACCAGTCCTCCATGATCACACCCAGGGACCTGCATGGGTGAGGGGACACCCTGGGCCTCTCTCCCGCCCAGCATCCTCCCTGAGTCCCCACACAGGGCCTCACTCTGCACCCCACCAGGGTCCCGCTCACACCAGGCAGCCTTCATAGTGGTCTCCCTGGCCACCTTGGGCAGAGCTGGGTCATGCAGCACCCCATCCTTACCCGGTGCCCTCTCCTTGCCAGCTTCTCCCCAGGCCAGAGCGGCCATCGCGTAGAAAGAACCAGGGTGTCCCCGGGACAGGCCGTCCCCCACCCCATCCTGTAGAAGTCCATTCCCCTTTTCCCTCCTGTGCTCTGTCCCCCAAGGAGTCATGGAACTCAGGGTACTGGGCCTCAACGGGAACCTGAGACAGCTCCAGCTTCGCAGCCCTTCCCGGAGCTACAGGGGGATCCTCTAGCATGGGGGGTGTGACTTGGTTCCTTTGACCAGGTCCTGTGAGGAAGCCTGGAGCAAGGGTCTCCCCCAGCAGGATGGGTGGGGCCTGCTCTGGAGCTGAGCCCGTGGCCGCTCACAGGTGTCCTTAGTGGTGTTGCAGCTGTCTACTGGCTGCATGTGCTGTGAATATCCCAAGGAACTGGCTGTGGAATGCGTGTTTGGGTCAGTCTGTGCCCTCTCAGTAGACACTGGAGCTGCTCTGTCCCTGAAGAGGCCCCGTGCCCCAGGCATGGCAAGCGCCTGCCTCTCCCCTTCCGGTGCTCACACGCCCACGCCGTGCCACCCGATGCAGGACTCACCTCTGTGCCTTGCTGCTCCTGAGGCCCAAGGGCAGCCATGGTGCTCTGTACTGCTCGGGCCGCCCAGGTCACAGAGCCTGAGCTTCGTAGCCAAAGCAGCCTGATGACCCACCCACCAAGGAAGAAAGCAGAATAAACATTTTTGCACTGCCTGAAAAACCCCGGTGGTCAGGCGTGAGCCTAGCGTGTGTGCGTCTGCCTGTCTGTCTGCTCCCTAAGTAGTCAAATGGATTTGTTCCTGGAGGAGTGACCAGGAATTTGCTGGCCAGCCTGGGTCAGGGTGGGGAGGGCTGCCGAGGAGGCGAGCACccccacccagacctgctcagtcagaaactgggcacccagcaatcttgacatcctctgggggtctccggtttgaggacccctgCCCACCAAGCTGGGCACCCTGGCCCCATGCAAGCGGGTGTGCTCCCACCTGGAACAGACGGTGGCCTCGGCACCGCGTGACGTCTGAGGGCTGGCTGGAGTCCAGCGTGAAGGGATGATGGTAGGGCCGGGGTGAGCTCTGGTGACCCTGCAGGCAAGAGGAGCCCAGGCAGGGGCTTCCCGGAGATGCAGCTTTGGGTGTGGCGGCAGTGAGGGGCAGGCAGGTGCTTTAGAGAGCCCTGCAGGACTGTCCCACGGCCATGTATGCAAGTGTGAAAAGCCCCGCTTCAGAGCCACACAGGTGTAACCTTGTTCCCATTGCTCCTTCCAAGGCGTGGTAGGGGGACGTGGGGGATGAGGTTGAACAGGTGGGTGCCCTCGTGCCAGGAAGCGGTTCTCTTGTCCCTGAGAAAAGTAACTCAGCCCAGAAGGCCTTGGGTATGAAAGGGCCATATAGGGCTCTGCGGACGCGTCCTATAAGTGAGAACCGCCAGGCGGGCAGGGTGGGGCTGGAGGGAGAAGGGAAGGTTCACTGGGGTTGCAAGAGCTGCCCCCTGACAGCACGGGAGGGAGGGCAGGGGGTCCCCAAAGGGAGGGGTCACCCTGCAGGTCAGAGGAGCAGCTGTGCCCCTGGCCATGGAGGGGTGGGCAGGGCCATGAGCCCCACCCTGAGAAGCCGGAGTTGAGGGGCTGGGCCAAGGGGTGCCATTGCTGGTGGGCAGAAGTTTCCCTCCCTGCAGGAACAGCCTGCACCCCCAGACTGTGAAGAAGGGATTCTTGCCCTGTGGTCACTGCGGGCCCTAGAGAGTCTGGGCCATGCCATGCCATGCCCTCTGCAGCTCTGTGGCCTTAGGGCAGGCTGGGGACAACTGCCCCTCCCCAGAGGCTTCCTTAACAGTTTCCTCACTGTTCCCCCTCTGGAGGGCAGGCGTCCCCACACACTACCCTGCTCACCCTAGCCCACCAGAGCACAGTGCCCTGGCTGTCTCCTCCCAAAGACCAGATGCCCCAAGTCTGCTGCCTGGGTCTGAGAGGGTCAAGTCCCTCCTCCACCATCGACTCCACACACCTGGGACCTGCCCCCTCCCTCACcacacactgcacacatcacatgcacaatacattcacacatatgtactatacatgtgcacacctcatacatgcaatgtgcaccacacatgcatcctacacgacacgtgcacacacaccacacatgcatgcctcacagtacacctgcacacgtgcactacacacaatcacacGTGCTATGCGTACACACCACACGTGTGCCTCAGTGCTACACATGCCTCATACGACACGTGCACACACATATGCATGCCTCACAGTACACCTGCACACGTGCACTACACACAATCACACGTGCTATGCGTACACACCACACGTGTGCCTCAGTGCTACACATGCCTcatacacacaacacgtgcacacaccacacatgcctcacagtacaccacacgtgcactacacacaatcacacatgctatgcgtacacaccacacgtgtgcctcagtgctacacatgcatcctacacgacacatgcacataccacacatgcatgcctcacagtacacctgcacacgtgcactacacacaATCACACATGCTATGCGTACACACCACACGTGTGCCTCAGTGCTACACATGCCTcatacacacgcacacacaccacatatgcatgcctcacagtacacctgcacacgggtgctacacacaatcacacatgctatgcgtacacacacTTGTGCCTCAGTGCTACACATGCCTcatacacacgacacgtgcacacacacaccacatatgcatgcctcagtacacctgcacacgtgcactacacacaatcacacacgctatacatacacaccacacgtgtgcctcagtgctacacatgcctcatacgcacacacacccatgcatgtgtcacatgcacCGTCACACCATAAGCTGCACCCACAGCAGGATGGGCTCAGAGCCAGGGCCCAAGGGTCTTTTATTTGTGTGCTGGACGCTGTTGGGAGTGACTGGATGTGAGCCAGCCCTATGGGTGGGGATGGCACCGCCCTACCGCCGAGAGAGTTGAAGCTGCACCCCCGAAAGGAGCCAGCTGTACCTTCACCCAGTCTGGGGGACTGGTGAGGCACTTGGGGGATGGGGAGCAAGGCCAGCTCACGAAGGAAGACTTGGGCAGGGAGGATCAGGGACGCCTGGCAAGGATCCACCCTATGGAATCGGGCCTCGTCAGTGGGGTGACAATGTCAGAGTTGTCTATAAATCGGGGGGGAGGCCGCGGCCTCGAGGTGGGAAAGCAGGTGCCGGCGCACCTGTGGACAAATTCTGGAACGCGTTTGGCGAGGGAGGAATAGGCGCAGCTCCGGAAGGCAGTGACCTCGAGGCAGCCTCAGCACGGCACTCTCTTGGGTCCTCTTCCAGGCTCACACTGGGCGACAGCGGAGAGGCTCTTGGACGGGGCAGAGCTCGCGCCGAGACCTGCATGTCCGCGTCTTGTGACGGGTGTGTGGGAAGCCGCCCGCCTGTGCATCTTGCTTCCGGGTATTCGCTGGCTGATTTACTGGTTTTAGAGATGGGGATGGGCACCCAGTGCTGGACTGAAGACCAGAGAAGGTGGAGCTCCCTGTGGCCTTGGTCTCACCTCTCTTCAGGTAACAGGCTCTGCCCTGACCCAAGCTGAGCCAATGAACCCCCTCCCTGGGAATCCACACCTGGACCCATTCCTTCTGGGCAGGGAGGGCTTGCTGGAGGGAGGGAGGCTGTGCACCCCACAGAAGACTGGGCCCCCTGGGCACAAGGGGACACTGGTGCTGGGTTCAGCAGCCCCCAGGACCTGGGCCAAGACGGGGGTGGCTGCTGCATTCACGCAGGACGTTGAGCTGCAGGGACTAGAGTGGCAGATGGGCCAGGTCCACTAGGCCACCCCATCTCCACCCCCAGGGCCACAAGCCGCTGTGGGCTCCACAGGGGTGGGAAGGAGTGCAGGGCTGGGGCTCGAGTGCCGTGGCCTCCACGTAAACGGGAACACGCTGTGGGCGAGAAGGCGGCTGAGAACAGGCTGGCCAGCTGGTGTCCTGCCCACCTCACTGCAGGGCCCCAGCAGCCCCCAGGCCACAGCCGCCGGCCACAGGGCACTGCCTGGGCTCACCGTCTCTTCATCTCCAGCGGGATCCCAGCCTCTGCCAGGAGGGCCTTGTACATGTCAGACTTCAGGAACCTTGGGTAGGAGTCCTACAAGAGACAGCGTCCAGCCCCTGACCCTTCTGCCTCCTCACCTCTCAGCCAGCTCCACCCGAAGGAGCAGCCAAACATTGCTGGAGCCTCCTCCAGCCACAGAGTCTCCGGCGGACAGGGTGCTGGAGGCAGCCGCCTCGGACCTGCCCAGACCAAGGCAGACGCAGGGAGACCTGGGCTCCCGTCTGCCTGGGCCATGTCGCAGCAAAAAATGGCAAGAGCCCTGGTGGCCACGTGTAGAGGAATAAACCGCGGCACCTCCTCAGCCATTAGCGGGAACCAGGAATGGCTCCGTGTGCCCCACAGAGTGAGGGCAGGGTTGTGGAGTCAAATAAAAAAACAAGGTAGGCCACGCATGGTGGCTCACGCCTGTGATCCCggccgggcagagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgatgcgggtggatcatgaggttgggagatcgagaccgtcctgggtaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggaggatggcgtgaacccgggaggtggagcttgcactgagccgagatcccgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactcgcctcaaaacaaaagaaaacaaaaCTTtttagatcgaagcttgacccttattaagcatgtgatctgggccagtccttcagcctgtctgaaccCGGAGTGGGCTCAGGACGGAACACTGACAGGAGAGCGGCCAGGGCGGCCCCAACCAGGTGGGGAAGGTGCTCCCCAGGGGCAGAGTCAACGTGGGCAGTGCCTGTGCGGACAGAGCCCTTGAGGGTGGGGACATGGAGGCCCGTCTGGGATGACCCCTCCTGCCCCTGCAGGCTGGCCCAGCACCCACCTTCTTCATGAGCATGTATATGTGCAGCTGGGCGTCATCCAGGACATAGCGGTGGGGCTGGCGCAGCCCCTCCAGGGTCTGCTCCATGGTCCGGCTGTCGATGTTGACCCAGTGGGCAGCTCCGGGGGCCAGGAACTGCCTAGGGGTGGGGACAGCACTGGGTAGTCTCGGCTGGGTGCACCTGCCCGTTGGCCAACCGGTGCCCACCACGCAGCACTTACTCGTACACGGCATCCACCAGGGTGGGGACCTGGGCCTGCGCTCCATATCGAAGCTCCTCACATGCCTCCCAGAAGCTGAGGTTTTCTCCTGGGGGGCCGGGCACCCAGTCAAGGATCCCATCGAGAGTGGCAGCCAGGGCCGGTGGGGGGTTCCCAGGGAGCTGGTGGAAACCGAGGCGGGAGGGGTCCCAGGCAGCAGCCTCCCCGCTGGGACTGGAGCAGGGGCTGGGGGGTTCTCACCACTGAACTCCTTTCCCAGAAAGTCCATGAAGTGGGCCCGCCCCACGGGGTCCTCCAGGAGCTCCCGGAAGCTGAAGCCCCATCTCTCCACACGGAGCTTCGTGGGGGCAGCCACCCTGGGGAGAGGGCAGGGCTGTTGGGGAGGGTGGGGACTGACCCTCCTGCGTCCCCCCAGGCTGGGAGCACACCCGCAGTCCCGCTGCCCCGCCTGGGCTCACGTGGGGGCATTCATGACCCAGTAGGCGTCATTGTCTGAGATCCAGGGATTGCTGGGCAGGCACCCCGACACGAGGGGATCGTGGGGTCCACGCTGGCCGCAGAAACTCAGGTACCTGGAAGGGGGTATGGGGGCTGGTGCAGGAGGGGCCTCAGCACTCAGCAGGGGTCTCCAGCTGCCACCCCTCACCCCACTCACGCCTCAAGGCAGACGGAGGACTTCACTCGGGTCCTGCCCAGCGCTTTCCTGAAGTACTCGATCTAGGATGTGGGGCCTGTGAGTCAGGTCCCGGGCTGGGGAAGGCACCTGGCACCCTCCACTCCCAGCTCCAGAACTTACCTCCCGCTTATGGAAATCTGCACTCTTGGTCTAGAAGGGGATAGGTGGGCTGCAGTTAGATGCAGGTCCCCTGCTGGGGTCCAAAATCCCCAGCAGGAGGGCACCTCCCCAGGCTGAGCCCCTGCCCCATAGATCTGGCAGAGATGGTGGCCCAGGCCCCCAGTCCCGCCCCTTGGAGCCCCTTCTTCCAATCAGGGATCTTTCGAGGAGACCTCTGGGGGCCTAAGGTCTGGCGATCTGTGGAATATTCCACGGAACCTCAGGTTCTCAAAGTTGCAACTGTAATATGTCAtttttttttctttattatttttttgagacagtttcactcttgtttcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatctcggctcaccgcaacctccgcctcctggattcaagctattctcctgcctcagcctctccagtagctgggactacaggcatgcgccaccaagcccagctaattttgtatttttaatagagacggggtttctccatgttgatctagctggtctcgaactcctgaactcaggtgatctgcccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattagagacgtgagccaccgcgcccggccTAATATGTCACATTTTCAAATGTACTTAAATTATGTTTTTAAACAACACATACTTGAGAAATACTACTAATGGGGATCACTGGGGAACCAGGTGTGACCTTCATTGGTCGGCACCTCGCTGGGGCCAGAGCGGAGGAGGCGGACGCGCTGCGAGTCCTGGCCTGTGTCCCCGCTCTCTCTGACCAGCTTTGTATGGGGAAATGTTAGGGTCGTGAACTTAAGAAGTTTTATCAGTGAGGTTCTAGGTGCATCTTTCCAGATGTTGGGTCTGGATGGGACTGGTTTGAACAAAGGGTTTTGCTGCTGCGGGGCTCAGATGCTCCCTCTGGTCTGGTCCCTCTGGTTCTGGAGGCCTCCACCTGGAGGGAGGTTGCTGGATCTGCTGAGGTCTGTCAGAGGCCGTAACCCTGCTTGTCACCCCTCCAATTCCCAGCAAACCCTGATACTGTTCTGGAGAAGAGCCCCCTTCCTCCCCGCCAGCCCCCTCGTCCCCACCACTCCACTTACCTGCACCCAGGGCAGCAGGTGGGAGGGGAGAGAAAGCGAGAGTTAGCAGGGGCCTGGGGAACAGGGAGTGACCGGGAGTGAGCAGGGGCTTGGGGAGGCTGCACCAAGTGCCCTCTGGGTGGACCAAATGACGGACAGATGGGCAGTCCCATGGTGCGTCCAGCAGGGTGCAGCCGGTGTGCAGGGTGAGAGGGCGGCCAGCACGCACGCAGGGGCTCACCATGAGCACACGGCTGGCAGCGCAGGATCCCCGCCCTGGACCCTGCTCCAGCACATCGGGGGCCCCGGGCTGCGGAGGGGAGACGAGATGAGGTGGGGATGCAGTTCCGGTGGCTGACCCCCTTTAAGGCTAAGTTCCCCCTCCCAGACCCCCATGTGGAAACTGACACTCAAAGGAACTCGGGAAGAGTCCCGACCTAGCCGTCAGCTGTCTCTTCTCTGCTCACCACCTCCAAATGGCCTGTCCACCGGGCCTCCCCACAGCCCCAGCTGCTCCCGGCCTGTGAACTCGGTCCCCCCACTGCAGCCAAGGCCGCCCCCCACTCTGCCTGCTCCCGAGGCAGAGTCTGCAGTCCCCGCAATCTGGCATCCCTGTGACTCTCCCTTGGGCCCAGAGAGAAGCTGGCTTGTCCTGTGGTCTAGGGATGGAGACCTGGGTTCTGATTGGCAGAAACGCAACTAAGTCACGAAGTGAAAACGTCCTGCCCCCACCAGGAGCTCCAAGGCAGGTCCTTCCACAGGCTCAAAATGGTGGTCCTGAGAGCGCCTGTCAGGGAAGCACGCTGACCCCTGCGCTGGCCAGCGACCCCCACCCTCACCGCAGGTGGGCTCACCGGGGGCCTGTTCACCAGCCAGTAGGTCTGCTCCTGGCACGCAATGACCAGCCTGTCCCCCTTGCTGCGCTGCTTGGCTGCCCTGGGAGGAGGAGGCCGAGTTGAGGGCACGCCCTGCACACAGCAGCCCCTCCGCCCCCACCCTCAGGCCTGGACCTGGGCAGGCAGCCACACCCAGGGGTGCCCTCCACGGTCCCAGGGCCACCGGAGCCTGGCCTGGGCTGGGCTTCCCGGGTAGCCTGGGTTGGGCGCCTGCAggcggggcggggcagggcggggcCTCACCTCAGCTGCTCCCTCGCCTGCATCAGCACCAGGTCCCATGCGTGGTTGATCTTCTTGTGTAGCCGGTCATAGCAGTCCTGGGGGCAGCGAGGTTTCCAGTGGGTCACCCCGGCCCCTGCCCCCAGTGAGACTGTGTGGGCAGTTGGGGGGTTGGGGACTGTCTTGGGTTTTGGGGCCTGGGCTGTATGTTCTGGGGTAAACCGTGAAGCCCCGGGGGGCCGTGAGTGAGGCTTGGGTTCCTCCAGCTGTACCCAGCCGGGGCGGGAAGGGTGGGGGGTCCCACCTTCTCATAATCCACCAGGGTCCCCCGTTTTCGGATGTTCTTCTTGGCCAGGTAGATGGCTGGAAGAACAGGGACAGCCTGCAGAGGGGCCAGCTCTGCCCTGCCTCACGGCATCACCCTGAGGCCCCCAGTCCTGGGAACTTGTCTGGGGCCAGCCGTCCCCTTGCTCACCATAGTCCAGCTCTGCAGCCGGCCTCAGGGTACTTGTCCAGAAGTACGGGGTCTGGCGTGGTGCAGGGAGAAGGTGTCCAGGACGCCTGCGTCTGTGCCTCCCCAGTGTCACCCCACCCTCAGACCTCCCTGGGAAGAAGCCTGGGCTGGGCAGGAGGTGTCTGAGGATCTCCCTGCCTGCCCACCACCGAGAGACTCCACTGACCACTGGCCAGTCTCTCCAACTAGAACTGAGGTCAACTCGCTCCTTAGGGCCCTGTTCAGACACTGCCTCCCTCACTGGTCACCCTAAGCCCCCATTCAAGGCGGGGTGGGGCTGGGGGCCTGCACAAGTCTTGGATGTAGTCACAGTCTGTGCCTGGGGAGGGGTACAACCGACGGCAGGTCGGCCCGGGACCCTGATGTGGTTAGGGAGGGCAGGAATGCTGTCCTCAGGCCTTCACAGCCCCTCCCTCAGGACCTGGGCCTAGGGACCCCCAGGAAGATGGCAGAATCCTCTGCACATACGACCCCTTGTGGGGCCCTGCTGTGGTCCCCAGGAAAACTGAGGCTCCATCCCTCAGCCGGGTCCTTCTCACCACATCCGTACTTGCGGTCCAGGACTTTTGGGGAGGGGGCGATGGACCACCAGCCCACGGCGACATGGCGGAGTCCCACTCCAATCCCAGCAAGCTCGGCGCCCCTCCTGTCTCCCCGAGTTGGTAAGCTGGGTGGGTGGGGGTGGGGGTCCCACCGGCTCCCACCTGCACCCCCGAGCCTGACCTGGAACCTGTAGGGCGTCTCGTCTGGCCGGAGCATGAGGCTACGGGGGTCGCGCAGCGGGTAGATGTAGCCATGCTGCACCAGGACGGCGCCCAGGTGCAGGGCCTCTGGGGAGGGGTGGGACGGTGAGCGCGGGGCCGCGGAAGCGGGCGAGGGCGGGACGAGCCGGGCCTCCTCTCCCCTATGTGCTCCCCACCCTTGCACAGCGCGCTCAGCAGGGCTCTGAGAACTGCCAGACTCCAGGAAAACCCAGGCCTAGGCCACCAGCCCAGTGACCCCAGGGCCCAGTGGGAGGCAGGGCGCTCACCCTCCTCCGAGACGCAGAACTTCTGGGCCAACCACTGCACGACGTCGCTGCCTGCACGGGAGAGACAGAGGTGGAGGGAGGCCGAGGCGCGCACGCACCCCCGCCCCGGCGCGCCTCACCTGTCACCGCGTGGGGAATGACGGTGACCAGCAGGCGCTGGCTCCGCATCTTCACGCCCTGGTCGGGGTCCTGCATGCTCACGACCACCCGCTCCATCTGGGCGGAGGGAGTCGTCAGGGGGTGTCTGGCCGCCCCGCAACCCTGATTCCCTGGCACCGGCCGGGATGCCCCGGATCCGGGAGCGCGGAGATTAACGCGCGGCGGCGGCGGATTCCAGGCCGCAGCTggcggcggggacgcggggcgggccggggagggccggggagggccggggagACCCCGGAGACCCCCAAGGgccccaggcctcgccgcccctcccggcctcgcagacctccgccccaggcccgccccgccccgcgcgcccccgtgtccccatgctctccggcccctcccggcctcgGGCGCCGGGAAATCGGGGGACGGCGGGACACCCACCCGCCTCGCACCTTCCTCAGATGCGGCATCTgcgcccgggggcggccggggggcggcgcggggccggcggccATGGCTGCGGGGCGAGGCCGGCGGGGATGACCGAcgtcccgcccggccccgccccgcgccgcgccgcgccCGGGTTAACCCTCGGGCCGCGAGGCCAGAGTCGCCCAGGCCCCGGTTCGGGTTTTAAGAGACACGGCCACGGCCCAGAGGCAAACGAGCCGGCCCCCCACGAGCGACCCGAGTCACCCCCCCGACCCAGGTCCCGGGACGCTGAGGCCCTCGTGGGTGAAGGCGAAGTGGGACGGGGGAGGGTGTGGGCCGGGGGCCGAGGGGGGATGTGAGGGGATGGAGCTCAGCTGGAGCAGGGGGTGGTCTCTGGGAGAGGCAGAGGGGCTCATCAGCGAGGGGGGGTTACTATGGGGAGGGTCTCAGGGAGGGCAGCGGAGGGGATGGGGGTTCAGAGAGGGAGAGGGGTTCCGTGAGTAGAGGAGACCCGTAGGGAGAGTGAACTGGGGTGGGAAACGTGGTTTAGGGCCCACTGTAACCCCGGTCCTATGTGTGGGGCCCTGAGGACATACAGGGACTAGAGGCCTGGCTGTGGGGCCGGGGCCAGGGCCAGCGGTATGACTGCCCGAGGCCTTGTGTCCTGCGATGCTTGTGGCCAAGACTGCATACATTGCTGTGACGGTGGCTGGTTAGGGGCAGGGTGCATGAGAGATTGGGTCAGCTTTCTACATGGGCCGGATGCCGGCTGTCAGTGGAGCACGTGGCTGCTGCAGAGTGTGACCCAGCTGTCCCCATCTCCTGCTGTGGGTCCCTTATCCGGGGTCCTTCCGGGAAAGTGGCTGATGGCTCATGGCTCACTTCCCTCAGCTCCACGCAGGCCTGGGTGGCCCGCTGGGGAATGAGCAGAAACCCTGCCCAGGGCACCCTGACACTGTTGGAGAGGAGCTTTACTGCAGGGAGGCCCTCAACACACACCCACTTAGTGTCACCGGCGGCCGCCAGGCTTCAGGCCCCACTCCACTCCCAGCTCTCTCCCTCCTCCAATGGCTATGCCTGTCCCCCAGGTGCACCCCGAGCCAGGCCCAGGATCTTCAGGCCCCACCGGgcagtctcggctcactgcaacctccgcctcctgaattcaagcaattctcatgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggctcccaccaccacgcctggctaatttttatttttgtttttgtttttgagacggagtctcactgtgtcacccaagctggagtgcagtgatgcggtcttggctcactgcagcctccgcctcctgggttccagcgattctcctgtctcagcctcctaggtagctgggattacaggcacgcgccaccacacccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagatagggattcaccacgttggccaggctggtttcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatgtgcctgccttggcctcccaaagtgctaggcttataggtgtgagccactgtgcctggccgattttggtatgtttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctgacttcaggtgatccacctgccttggcctcccaaagttctgggatgacaggtgtgagccaccacacccggtcGGATCAttttttaaaaactaagtcgaggtctcactatgttgcccaaggtggtcacaaactcctgggctcagtccatcctcctgcctcagcttcccagcgtgctgggattaaaggcatgcccagccaGCAtcttttttttttttttttttttgagactgagtcttgctctgtcaggctggagtgcaatggcgcaatctcgtctcactgcaacctcctcctcccagattcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgagattacaggcccccgccaccacgcttggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacagcatttcaccttgttggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgaccttaggcgatctgcccacctcggcctcccgaagtgctgggattacaggcctgagccaccgagcccagccTCAGCACCATTTTTAAAAGGTGCAAATGCATCTATTTCTGCTTGCTTTCtttattttttaaattatttatttatttattttgagatggagtttcactcttgttgcctaggctggagtgcaatggtgcaatctcgggtcactgcaacctccgcctcctgggttcaagcgattctcttgcctcagctcccaagtaggtgggatcagaggcatgcgccaccatgcccggctaatttttttttttgtttttttttttgcatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccgtgttggccaggctggtatcaaacttcctgacctcaagtgatccacctgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcacctggccACtaattttttttttaatttcatttttatttttGTAGATAAATATACACGTAGCCCCTCGCTTATCCCTGTCTGTAAGGGCCTCAGTTtcttgctgtgttgcctaggctggctgatcttgaactcctggcctcaagtgatcctcctgcctcagcctcccaaatgttgggattacaggcatgagccatggcacctggctATGTAtttattttttgagagatggcagtctcattctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcaatcataaactcattgcagcctcaaactcctgagctcaagtgattctcccaccccagcgtcctgagtagctgggactacagatgtgtaccaccgcatctggTCTATTTCTGCTTTCTTGGAGGCAGAGTACCTCTCCCCATCCTTACCCACTCAGAGGGTGCTAGGGGCTGGGCAGGGTGGGCGGTTGGCCTTGGGCTGGGAGCCCCTAACATAGTGGTCTGAGTCCATTTCCATTGCCGGAGAGGCCACGTTCAGCATGAGCTGGGGCAGGGGGCTTGTGGGGTCTCTTACTCCAGGGTACCATCTCGCTTGGATCCCAGTGAGCCCTCCCATGCCCCACACCCAGGTGGGGTGAGGTGGCCCAGGTCTGGCTGCCCTGTCTGCAGGGGTGGGCACCCATGGTAGCTGtgaggcagaatagggaatgagggtagccaagggttgggcataagaaacggaacagcaggtgcagccagttctaggcaggattgggcagctcacaagccacatcctggctgctgtgataacaagacagaaatttccacttcacctctgattggtctcgggccaatccttcatagggtgtagccaattggaggcctctaaagggcacaagggctgtggtcaggtttctttgcttaataaaaatcctaattacagaggctctggagctacttgctccagcccactcccactctgtgaattgccttccgttaaatctgtgctttccttactccgttcttctgactcagttttgtttccttgtgtttcgttgttcttttgttactttgtgcgttttgttcaattctttgttcaacccaccaagaacctggacaACTCACCTCCAAGACCTTCTATCTGGTAACAGCTGCAGGAGCTGGAGCTGTGGGCCTGGGGACAAGTGTCCTAACAGCCCCCGCTCCCTGCAGCGAAGGGTCAGCAGAGGTGGCGCTCTAGGGGGGCCTGGGCACAAGTTCATAGGATCCTGCCCTGGAAAGGTTGTGGGCAGTTGGGGGGCAAGGGAGACAGTCCCCACCCAAACCCCAATGCCCCCTAGCACCCAAGGTGGTCTTCTCTCAATTGAGGAGCTCTTTGGCAAGGGCGGGTCTAATTTCTGGTGTCCCTGGAACCGGCCAGGGGTGTCTAAGAAAGGGACTCAGGCTGGTGTTCGGACCCCTTCTCCCTTATCCAGACGCAGGCCTTTGGTCCAGCTGTCCCAGCCAGGGCCTGCTCACCCCTGTCCCCTGCCGGGTCCCATCCCCCCCACCCACCCACAGGTCTCAGTTTAGGTGTCAATATCAGAAGCCCCCTCTGTGCTCCGGTCTCTGTACTCCGCCCCCTTGTCAGTGTCCTCTCCCTGAGGACAGGGGGCTCGGTAACTGGGTTTCCAAGAGCCCTGCAGGGACACCCCCTCTTGGGAACTCACACAGCGCAGCCAGGTCGCTAAGCCTTTGAGGGGCCCTTGTTGCCTCCTGGGTGTGCGTGCGACCCGCGCCCACTGTGGTCCCGCCCTACTGATGACCGTGAACCTGTAGGGTGTTGGGCCAGCCCCTCACCCCAAGGCTGGGCAGGCCCCCGGAGTCCCCCTCGGCCCAGACAGAAGCTCCCTCAGGAGCGGGGGAGGGGAAGGGGGCGCGCGGTCCGGCCCCAGGTGTGGCCGCGGATAATGAGACCCTGGGGATGGGGGCGCACCTGCGCCACGGCGCCCCGCAGAGGGTTTCCCAGGAGACCCCCTCGGGCTCCCGCCGCGCCGTGGGGGTGGGGCAGCCCTGCTGGCCAGAgccgggcacgggccgggcgggcggcggggATCGTGACCGCGGCTGCGTGCGTCCGCGTCCGGGCGCTTCTGTGCGGGGTCCTGGCACGCCGGCGGGGGCGACCCGGGTGCCGGCCCGTGCGGGCGACACGCGCGTCTCTGCGGGGCTGCGCGGGGTCCGGAGCGGCTGGGGGCTCTCTgccgggcgcggctgggcgcggggggcgctcccggccgggATGAGCTCACCGCAGTCGCGCCGGGGCTGAGCGCCGAgcggggcggcggcggggcgggcggcggctcctcggcggctccgcggcgcccgggccgcgcgccgccATGCTGGGCCTGGACGCGTGCGAGCTGGGGGCGCAGCTGCTGGAGCTGCTCCGGCTGGCGCTGTGCGCCCGAGGTGAGCGGGCCGGGCAGGGGCGGGGGGCTCGGCTGGTCTCAGCCCCGGGCGGGGAGTAGCCCCTCCCCCGCGGCAACTTTGGGGGCGCGCATGGGGACCTCGCGGCGCCGACCCCCCGGCTGGGGTCTGGCAGGGGTGGGGGACTTCATCCAGGCTCCAGCCCTGTGGGGAAGGGACCAGGTGCGGACGGGTCGGCTTGGGAAGCGGCGGCGCTGGGACCCTCTCCCCCTGGACACCGCCGCCTGGAGCCCCTCTGTCTTGGGTGGGGCTGGGGCTGGGGCTCAGGCTCTGTAGGGCGTGTGGTGATCCCCGAGAAGACGGGAGCGAAGTGGGCAGGGACTCAGAAACCCCTGCCCAGGGCACCAGGGAGAGGGGCTTCAGGAGGCCACCAGCCCGGGGCGCCATGGGAGGCGGCGCAGAGCCTGAGCCCAGGGATTTGGAGACAGCCGCCCCCGGCACCCGAGCACCATGGGGAGGAACTCCTAGACTGTGGGAAAGTGTTCAGAGACCCCAGTCCAGAGCAGGGTGGTGGAGGGCCCTAGAGGGTCAGTAGGCTTGGGGGGCCGCCGAGGGCCCTAGAGGGTCAGTAGGTTTGGGGGCCGCCGAGGGCCCTAGAGGGTCAGTAGGTTTGGGGGCCGCCGAGGGCCGCTGCTCTCTAGCAGGTAGCCCCTGACCCTGGGCTGCCCTCATCTGAAGTCTTCGCTCCCCCGCCCTTTGGTCTCCGAGTCAGGGAGGGGGCCCTTGTGGACATCTGGGCCAGAGGAGCTGCAGGCCTGGCGGTCTCTGGAGGCCCCTCCTGAAGGTCTGGGTGCGGTGCGGCACCTCCCCAGGCCGCCCTGCTCTCTCTGCTCGCTCTCTCCCTGAGCCCCCAGAGGCTTCCCTTGAGTCCCTTTGGATAGTGGGAGGTACAGCTGGCCAGAGGGGGCTCCAGCCTGGTGCTCGAATGCCAGGGTCCGCTAGTGGCTGCTGCTCACGCCCCTCCCCACCCCCAGTCCTCCTGGCTGACAAGGAGGGTGGGCCGCCGGCAGTGGACGAGGTGTTGGATGAGGCTGTGCCCGAGTACCGGGCGCCGGGGAGGAAGAGCCTCTTGGAGATCCGGCAGCTGGACCCGGACGACAGGAGCCTGGCCAAGTACAAGCGGGTGCTGCTGGGGCCCCTGCCACCGGCCGTGGGTATGGCAGGGGTCTAGGCTTGGAGGGCTGGGTCTGGGGGGCTGGTGAGGAGCCTGGTGGGGGTGGGGGGCATCCTGCAGACTTCCAGTTTCTCCTCAGACCCAAGCCTGCCCAATGTGCAGGTGACCAGGCTGACACTCCTGTCGGAACAGGCTCCGGGGCCCGTCGTCATGGATCTCACAGGTAACTCGCAGGATGCTGCACCCTGAACACAGGTAGGGCCCTCCCAGGCACGCTTCTGCACCCCTGAGTTCCGAGCCCTGGGCCATCACAGTCGCACACCTCATGGGTACCACACCCTACGTGGGGGCTCCTGGAGCAGGTCTCAGCCTGTAGGGGAGTTCCGACCCTAGCTGAGGTTTCCCCAATAGGGGACCTGGCTGTTCTGAAGGACCAGGTGTTTGTCCTGAAGGAAGGTGTTGATTACAGAGTGAAGATCTCCTTCAAGGTGAGAGCCGGGGCAATGGGCGGAGGGGATGGGGGTGGGGGCAACAGCCAGAGGCCTGGCCCCCAGAGGAACCCCTAATGCCTCTGTTCCCAGGTCCACAGGGAGATTGTCAGCGGCCTCAAGTGTCTGCACCACACCTACCGCCGGGGCCTGCGCGGTGAGGGCAGCGGTGGGGGGAACGGGGCGGGGGGGGGAAGCGGGGGCAGACAGAGGACAGCTCTGATGCCCTCGCCCTCCCTAGTGGACAAGACCGTCTACATGGTGGGCAGCTATGGCCCGAGCGCCCAGGAGTATGAGTTTGTGACTCCGGTGGAGGAAGCGCCGAGGGGTGCGCTGGTGCGGGGCCCCTATCTGGTGGTGTCCCTCTTCACCGACGATGACAGGACGCACCACCTGTCCTGGGAGTGGGGTCTCTGCATCTGCCAGGACTGGAAGGACTGAACCCCCAGTCCGTGTCTCCCCTACCTCCCTCAGTTGTTGCACAGGGACCCCCAAGCATCCCCAGCACCCCCCGTGAGTGACCAGACCCTcccctgctgcccctgctgcccctgctgcccctgctCTGTCCCGGGACCCCCTGGCCTGGCGCTGTCCCCTGAGCTGTCCCATTAAACATGGCCCTGTCTCTCTCGGTGCCCTGGGTGTCGTCTCTTTCTGCCTCCCCTCCCCTGGGGGCCGGGGGCGGCCGCATGGGCCTTGTCTTTGCTGGGACTGGGCCTGTGTGCCACGTGGCAGCTGCTGCTTGGCTTCTGGCCCCCTTATCTGCCCCCGCCCCACGCGCCCTGGCAGCACCATGAGCCGCCAGCTTCTGCCTGTACTGCTGCTGCTGCTGCTCAGGGCTTCGTGCCCATGGGGTCAGGAACAGGGAGCGAGGAGCCCCTCGGAGGAGCCTCCAGAGGAGGAAATCCCCAAGGAGGATGGGATCTTGGTGCTGAGCCGCCACACCCTGGGCCTGGCCCTGCGGGAGCACCCTGCCCTGCTGGTGGAATTCTGTGAGTGCTGGGGCCAGTGGGGCTGGGGACCGGCGGGGGACCGGCAGAGCCCACCTGGGGGCCCCACCCTTTGCCGGCAAATGCAGGGCATGTGCCCAAGAGGGGCCTCCCCGCAGGCACTTGCCCCCACTGTGCCCAGGAGCTCTCTAGGAGGGGCCTGGGGGTCTGGTTGGGGCAGGCAGGAGCAGTGTGGTAGTACTGGGGGTACCCACAGGACTTGAGAACACCTGTGCCTCCCTGCTCGGCCAGCGGCCACGGTGCCAGAGTCACCACCTTGCCGGCCACTCCTCCAGCTGCCAGGGGCATCCCACAGACTCTGCAGAGGCTCGGGCAGTATCCAGGCTTTGGGGGCCCATGGAGGTCCCTGACGTGTGTGCCCTGTGGTCTTTTCGCAACCCTTGACACACATAGGAACTGTTCTTGCCTAGGAGGCCTTCACAGGCAGCCACATGGGCCCGGGAGCCCCAGCCATACAAGGCACGAAAGGGAGGGGtctttttatttttattttttgagatggagttttgcttttgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggccctatctcggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattataggcatacgcaaccaatcccggctaatattttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtctcgaactcccaacctcaggtgatatgcccgcctctgcctcccaaagtgctgggattactggcgtgagccactgagcctggctGTGGGGGGAGGGGGGGTGGTCTTTCAAGCTCTCCCAAGCCTTACTGGTCCCTGTGCTGCAGCCTGGGGGGCCACGAAGAGGCACTGGTGCTCGGCTTGTCCACGGCCAGGGCTCAGGGCAGAATGGAGCAGCACGCTTGTTCCCTGCTGGGTTGTCAGGTGTGGAGAGGGTGCTCCTGGGGTTGTGGTGGCCTGGGGCACTCACGGCCCCATCCCCCAGATGCCCCGTGGTGTGGGCACTGCCAGGCCCTGGCCCCCGAGTACAGCAAGGCAGCTGCCGTGCTCGCGGCCGAGTCAATGGTGGTCACGCTGGCCAAGGTGGATGGGCCCGCGCAGCGCGAGCTGGCTGAGGAGTTTGGTGTGACGGAGTACCCTACGCTCAAGTTCTTCCGCAATGGGAACCGCACGCACCCGGAGGAGTACACAGGTGAGGGGCAGGCCGGTCATTGGGGGGGCGGTGGCCAGGCCGAGGCTGAGGGGGACTCCCTGCAGGACCACGGGACGCTGAGGGCATTGCCGAGTGGCTGCGACGGCGGGTGGGGCCCAGTGCCATGCGGCTGGAGGACGAGGCGGCCGCCCAGGCGCTGATCGGTGGCCGGGACCTAGTGGTCATTGGCTTCTTCCAGGTGAGCCACTGGGCATGGGGGGCCGGGCCATGAGGGCAGTGACTGTGGGTGGGACCGGGTGGCCTCACAGGGCCAGGCCCCTCAGGACCTGCAGGACGAGGACGTGGCCACCTTCTTGGCCTTGGCCCAGGACGCCCTGGACATGACCTTTGGCCTCACAGACCGGCCGCGGCTCTTTCAGCAGTTTGGCCTCACCAAGGACACTGTGGTTCTCTTCAAGAAGGTAGGTCAGGCCCAGGTGTGGGTTGGGGTCCGGCTGCAGCGCCCGCTAACCCACCTGCTGCTGTCCAGTTTGATGAGGGGCGGGCAGACTTCCCCGTGGACGAGGAGCTTGGCCTGGACCTGGGGGATCTGTCGCGCTTCCTGGTCACACACAGCATGCGCCTGGTCACGGAGTTCAACAGCCAGGTGCGTAGGCTGCAGTGCCTGGGCTGGGGGTGTCCCAGGGTAGAGTCGTCCAGGGATGGGGGTGCCTAGGCTGGGGGTCCTGTGGAGTCATGAGCACCCTCCCTACTGTAGACGTCTGCCAAGATCTTCGCGGCCAGGATCCTCAACCACCTGCTGCTGTTTGTCAACCAGACGCTGGCTGCGCACCGGGAGCTCCTAGCGGGCTTTGGGGAGGCAGCTCCCCGCTTCCGGGGGCAGGTACTGGGGGGCTGGGGGAAAGGGGCAGCGGGAGAGTGGCCGGTGCCAGCATGGACTCCCTGCCACAGGTGCTGTTCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGGCGGCCGACAATGAGCACGTGCTGCAGTACTTTGGACTCAAGGCTGAGGCAGCCCCCACTCTGCGCTTGGTCAACCTTGAAACCACTAAGAAGTATGCGCCTGTGGATGGGGGCCCTGTCACCGCAGCGTCCATCACTGCTTTCTGCCATGCAGTCCTCAACGGCCAAGTCAAGGTCCGCTGCAGACTGCTCATAATGGAAGGGGAACCCTGACCTCATCCCACCAGCTTGGCAGGGGGTGGGAACAGCAGCTCTCAGAGCCCCCTGCCCCTGCAGGCCCCGCAGAGGCCCCCCTCAACCCGGCAATTCTCCCAACCCGGCGGTTCTCCCAACCCCAACCCGGCGGTTCTCCCAACCCCAAACCCGCGGTTCTCCCAACCCCAACCCCGCGGTTCTcccaaccccaaccccaaccccaaccccaaccccGCGGTTCTCCCAACCCCGCGGTTCTCCCAACCCCGCGGTTCTCCCAACCCCAACCCCGCGGTTCTCCAACCCCGCGGTTCTcccaaccccaacctcaaccccaaccccaCAGAGGTCCCTCCCCCCACCAAACCCCACAGTTCTCCCTCCCCCCACTAAACCCCACAGTTCTCCCAAACTTGAAGAGGACCTCCCTGTCAGGCCCTGCAGAGGATCTcccccccacctgcccccggccccgcacaggacctcccccccaccgccccccccacacagaacctccccctgccgctgaccccgcacaggacctcccccccacccccCAGGCCCTGCACAGGACCTCCTGAACCCTGCAGAGGACCCCTGGCAAAGCGCCTGTCCTGGTTTCCCCCAGCCCTATCTCCTGAGCCAGGAGATACCCCCTGATTGGGATCAGCGGCCAGTTAAGACCCTCGTGGGCAAGAATTTTGAGCAGGTGGCTTTTGACGAAACCAAGAATGTGTTTGTCAAGTTCTGTGAGTGTTGAGGGAGGCAGGGGTGGTGTGGGCTGGGCAGGGGCTGCCCAGATGGCTGTGCTCAACGGCTCCCATCCTAGATGCCCCGTGGTGCACCCACTGCAAGGAGATGGCCCCTGCCTGGGAGGCATTGGCTGAGAAGTACCAAGACCACGAGGACATCATCATTGCTGAGCTGGATGCCACGGCCAACGAGCTGGATGCCTTCGCTGTGCACGGCTTCCCTACTCTCAAGTACTTCCCAGCAGGGCCAGGTCGGAAGGTATGGCGGACAGGTGGCTGGGGAGGAAGCCGGGGTGCCATCTTGCTGGGCATGGGGCTGGGCCCCACGTGTCCTCCAGATCCCCCTGCCTCTTCTCAGGTGATTGAATACAAAAGCACCAGGGACCTGGAGACTTTCTCCAAGTTCCTGGACAACGGGGGCGTGCTGCCCACGGAGGAGCCCCCGGAGGAGCCAGCAGCCCCGTTCCCGGTGGGTGTCCCTAAGCCAGGGCTCCAGGCCTCTGCACAAATCCTCTTTACACAGGGCTGGCAGGGGCGGGGGCAGGGGTAGGCTGGGAGCAGAGCTTCGAGCTGCACTTGTGACCCTTTCTAGGAGCCACCGGCCAACTCCACTATGGGGTCCAAGGAGGAACTGTAGCTGCCCCCGTGTCACCCCCGCCATCACTGCTGGACAGGAGCCACCCCCTTGGGTACCAGAGGGAGCTGTGCATTGTGAATAAAGAGTGAGCTTGGTTCTGGACTCTGTGTGCCTGGTCCCTCAGCAAGGCTGGCCTGATGCAGCTCTGCCCAGCTGGGGGCTCCAGGGCAGGAAGGTGGAGCACGTTCCTGCTCTAGCCCTGCCAGCCTCTGAGTCACAGGTGATCCCCATGCCTGCTGGAGGCCAGTGTGCCCTCCTTTACCACGGGGGCTGAGGCTGGGAGACCTAGGCCAGGCCCCACCCGCAGAAGACACACCACAGCCAGGGCAGGTTCAAAAACAGTTTTATTTCATTATTATCCAAGTACCTTTGAAAAGATAATTAATTGTACAAGTGTCATCGCATGAAAAACAGACTCGGGCAGCCCCTGCTGGCCTAGCCTGAGAAATGTACATATTTACACGGGCCCTCAGAAAGGAGGACCCAGGACTGCACAGCCGGCGGCTGGAGGCAGGTGCAGTGCTCCGTCGCCGATTCACACAGTGGCAGGCAAGAGACAAGCTGTGTTGAAGGCACTCGGTGGCGCGTACAATTGACAGAGGCCCTGCAGGCCTCTGCATCCGGGCCTGGGCCCCACCCAGACCTGGGTACGTGGGCAAATCCCAGAGGGAAAGTAGATCCCAGCACACGTGCCCAAGGGAGGTGCCGGGGGATGGGGGGGGGTCACCTGAAGCTGGCAGCAGGGACCTCGGCTGCCTCACTTGGGCTGGGCCCTCCAAGTATTGCTATGAGGAGTGGTCCAGGCTGCCTCCTTGGGGGCAGGACAGAAGCTTGTGGACCACTTGGAGGGACCCCCTACCTGCCTCTAGACACGGGTAGACCACAGGGATGGGTGGTACACCCAACACTGTTCCCCATCGGGCTCCTGAGTACGAGGTCATCTGCCTGGCCGTGACACCCGTGCCCGCCAAGGGCCTCGCCTGGCACAGCGGCCAGCCCACCAGCCTATCAGTCCACCTTCTCCACTTTGCCGATGATCTTCTCCTCAAAGACGGGCAGGACGGCCTCGTCCTCTCGAACCTCCTCAAACACCACCCCACAGTCAAACTCGTCGCTCACTTTCTTGAAGTAGTATCTGCAGGACGGAGGTGAGGAGGGCAGTGAGCAGGCAGCACCGCAGATGGGAAGGAGGCCTGTGGCAGGGGACGGCGTGTCCACACCCCATCCCGAGGAGCCTCCTGTCCATGCCCCACGGCCCCCACTGCATGTGCGCCCCCTCCCAGGGCAACAGTGAACAGTGCAATGACCACATGTGGGTGAAGTGGGCAGCCATGGGGGGTGAGTTCACTGCCTGCTGGGAGCACCCCACATCCCCCTGGGAGTACCTGCCCCAGCCTCTCAGGAGTTGCAGGGGGGAAGTGGACGGGTGTGGGGTGTCTGCTTCCCAAGGGCTGAGCCCCGTCATGGAGGTGACCCCAACTGGGGCCCTCCCTCAGCACCACATCTGCAGTCATGGGGTGTTTGCACAGTGGCTTGTGGACGGTGGGAACCACCCGCCAGGCTCTGCCAGGCTCTTGGGGTCAGGCCCCCTCTGCTCACCGCCCAGTGCTCACTCGGGAGCCTCCAAGGCTGGCTGCACGCAGGGCCCTGCAGGGCTGAGTGGCCCAGGGCGAATGAACCTTGGTAGGAGGGGGCTTGGCTTTTCAGTCAGGCAAAAGCACATGAGTCCAGAGCCTGGAGACAAGGTCGGCCTAGGGGAGCCTAACACAAGGTTCAGACCATCGTCGTCTAGGGGTCTGGCCTCTGTTTTCCCACCCCGAAGATGAGGGCCCTGGACGGGGGTCCCTTTGGACCCTCTCAGTCCTGTGGGGCCGAAAGCCTGATGCCACCCTCAGCCTAGGGCTTGGAGAAGTGGCTTTAGTTGCAGATGAGGGACATGAGCTGAAATGGCCGGAAGCCCtttttcttctttttttttttttgggcgggggtagagacagagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagagcagtggcgtgatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgagttcaagcaattctgcctcagcctcccaagtagcacacctggctaatttctttagtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttgcccaggctggtctcgaactgctgagctgaggcaatccgcccacctcagcctcccaaagtgccaggattaggacgtgagccactgtgcccggctGGAAACCCTCTTTTTCATACCGTTGGGCACCCACATACTCGTGCGGGGAGGGGGCACCCCAGCCCTCACACTCACCTGTAGCTGCCCTTTTTGGTCAGCAGCTCCTTGAACTGGCCCAGGGTGACAGCGCGGCCCCTCACCAGGGTGCGGTAGGGGATGGGTTCCCCGCAGAAGTAGTACGCCACAACGATGCTGTCACACGGCTGGGCACTCCCGCCGCCCACCTTCCTCTGCGATCTTGTCCTGGGGAAAGAGATGCAGCGGTGGTACCTGGTTTTGGACTGAGGTCCCACAGGGTCCCTCCTGCTGGCCTCAGGCTGCCAGTGTAAGGCGGGGCAGGCCTGCAGGGGTGAGCAGCACCCCATTCAAACACCTGGGGCCCGCAGCCCCCGCACAGCATCTCAATCTGGGATCTAGTCCGCTAGCAGTGGAGTCGGCTCCGCTCACTGGGAGCACGAAGGTCTCCCTGCTGCCTCACAGCCCCACCCTCGACTGGCCAGGGCCTGGCTGCCAGGTGCACTGCAGCTCCCACCTCTAGGATGGCAGGGCAGGCTGCAGGGCTCCTATCTCAGGAAGACCTACGGCCCCCAAACCTTAAAAACATCTGAAGGGCAGGGATTGGACAAACAGAACTGTGCACGATTTCTGGATAAGCCTGACCCCGCAGCGAAGTTTGTCGGAGGACTGGGGCGGGGGTGGCCAGCAGGCCCTTCAGAGGGGGCAGGGCTGGCACCGTCTCCTGCCCAGGCTGAGCCGGGCCCTCCTCTGACAGGTGCTGTGCTTCCACAGCCGTGCCGGGATGACGGGCGGGGCCTGGTTGCTCTCGCACCCCCCACTCGGCTACCCCGCCGCCACCTGTCCTTCAAGTGACTCCAGAAGCTGCCCCTGGCCCACTGGGGTTCAGCCCTTGGGCCTCCTCCTGGCTGGGTGCACCAGAGGCTTCCAGAGCCAACACCAGGGCAGGAAGGCCTCATGGCCACCTGAGCCATGTGACCATCCTCTTTGCACACCAGGCCCCCAGCCACGTGCGCTCTTAGACGTCCTCCCAGTGCCACATCCTCGGAGCCTCCTGGAGCCAGGCCCATCAGAGAAGAGCCAACACGTGGGGGCTGCCCCAGGGACAGGTGAAGGCTGCCCCAAGACCGCCTACACGATGAGGGCCACAACAAACCTGCATCTGGGGCAAGCCTGGCAAGGCCTGGGGGACCCTTGTTCTCAAGGCCCCTTTTGGGGTGTGCCCCCTCCTCCTGCCACCTTGAGCACATAAAGGCGCCGTCGACACGGCCCATGTGGGATCACATGGTCTGAGCCCTTTCTCACGGGTTCAGAGCAGTCAGCATTGTAGGTGGGAGCAGAGCCCCGACTCACTGACTGCACGGGCTGGACAGACACGCATGGCTGAGACCCACACTGCAAGCAGACGCACCCCGGGCACCTCAGCACCTGCAGCCCCGAGCCTGGTCAAGTCAGGCCTGGCAGGGACCGGCCCGTTCCAAGCCGGGTGGAGGCGCAGGCAGGTCTCTGCCCCACAGGAAGCCTGGCCGTGACACCTGTGTGGATGCAGGGGCTGGCTGTGCCCAGGCCTCCAGCCGGGCCTTTTGGTCACTTGTCATCATGCTGGACAGTCAGCGTCTCCTTTGATGGAGACAGGAGAAGGCTCTCGGGCAGCTTCGAGTCTGATGCCACGGGACCCTCTCCTGCCACAGCTGCTTCTGAGCGTGGTACCCGAGCTCAAGCCCCGGGACGGCGGCTCTACGATGGGACCTGGCTTGGGACGCCAGGGCTGGGGTGGGCAGGACCGGGAGGACCCTCAGGACGCACGTACTCTGTCTCGGAGAGCTCCATGTCCGACACGGCTGGTACCACGTGCAGCACCGGCGCGCACGCTGGCCTGACGCAGGCGCGTCCCCGCCGCATAACCTCCTGCACATACCTAGGGAACAACCCGCGTCAAAGGTGGCTGTGCCGGCGGCCACCAGCCCTGGGGAGGGAGCCTCGACCAATGCTGCTGCGCAGGGACGGACGGAGCGTGAAGGGCCCGAACAACCCACCCTGCGCAGGCTCCAGTTTGCAGGGTAGACAAGACACCGAGTCCCCTCCTAGGCCTGCCTTGGTGGTACCCGATACTGCAGCGCGCCCCACATTCATGATCCCGGCACCAACCCCCTGAGTTCCCTGGACCGCACTTTGGGGAGCTTCCGATCAGGGGTGCTGGGATCCCACCACCTCATCCCCTCTGGTGGGATGACATCTCGTCCCGAGAGTCTGTCCTTCAGTCTCTTGGCATGAATTCCCCACCGATAGCGTGGACACTGGCTCTGGGGCGTGCGTGGCAACTCGGTCTGCACCTCAGGGAGGCTGAGGGCCCCCCGGCGCCACAACTGAGGCCATCCTGGGGCAGCACAGCAGCTCCTCTCACGTGGACACCTCCACCGGGGTACACTGGGCGACCTTGATGGTGGTTTCTACTCTGACATCCTGACAGGGCCCAGCACCCAACCTGCCTCTGGGCCTTCACTCCGTCTCCACAGCTTCTCGCAAAAACCCACATCCCCTGGACGGACAAACCCAGCAACTCTGGGTTTCCCCATGGGGGGATGCTGGAGCCCAGCAGCCAAACGGGCGGGAGGGTCGTGTCTCAGAACGGCGGGAGTGGTCCCACGGCTCAGCGGGCATCCCCTGCCATCATGTGGGGCCACGGGTACCAGGGGAAAGCGCAGACGCAACCTGAGAGACCCCTGCTCAGCCCAGCAAGGATGGCTCAGGAAGCCCCGGCAGGAGAGCCCACACACGCCCAGGGCCTCGGACCTGCTGCACACGATGCCCACCACGGCTCATCTGCCAGCCCAGTCACACGCCCCGGCTCCGAGCACCACACTCCAGGCTCCTGCATGGCAGGGGGCTCCAGCTCCTTGTTGGCCGAACACGATCACAGGGTCACAGATGTTTGGTCATAAAGTGGTCACCCTTTGGGTTTGAGGTAACTGTGACCCTTTCTGGCCCCAGAGCTGTCATTAGGCTCACAGCCTGGCAGAAGCTCAGGAACCTTTAATGACTTGAGACCACACAGGCTTTCAGCTGGGAAGGGTCTGAACCCTGATGCTGGTTCGGCAGAATAAGGCCCCTAGCCACAGCCTCCCTGGAGTGGCACAGCCCCAAAGCTGGAGGCCCGGGAGGCGGGCCTGGACCCCAGGCCCCAGGTGACCCAAGGTGGACAGGAGGAGCTGGTGACCTCTGAAGGCAACCATGGCCTCTGTGACCACAGCCCCAGGGCCTGGGTGAGCTATAGGCTCCCAGGACCCTCAAAGAGACACTGATCTGTGGGGAATTCCAATGACCCAGGATGGCCGAGAAAACTGGCCTTATGAGCAAGCTGAAAATGGAGAAGCCAGGTTCTGGCCTGGAGCGAAAATGCTGCCCACACAAAGGGGAGACCTCCCTGCAGCCCAGACAGAAGCCTCCCTGCCCTAGGGAGAGAACAGGGTCTGGCTACGGAGCCCAGAAGACCAAGGAGGGCGCAGTGAGGAGGGCTGTGGGCTGGACGTCCCGGATGAGAGAAGGGCACAGTGAGGAGGGCTGTGGGCTGGACATCCAGGATGACAAGAGGACACAGCGAGGAGGGCTGTGGGCTGGACGTCCAGGACGACACTTCTACATCTGCACGGCTTTCAGAACCACGTAGCTTTCCGACCGTGCAGAGCCACTCAGGGCTCCTGGGACGCAACTGTCAAGAGGCAGCCGCCATGCCTCCAGGACCTCTGCCCTAAAGCCCAGGCTGCCCAGCAGCGAGCAGCCTCTGGCTGGGGACCGGCGTTCCCCACACACTGGGGCCCTGCAGCCTCCCTGCAGACTGGGCTCAGGTTGAGGAGGGACCCCGCCTCCAGAGCAATGAGCGCGGCGGCCTCGGGTGTGTGAAAGCTCCAGCCCCAGCCTCCGTCCACCGCAGGGTGGCCTGCCACGTGGCCCCTCAGTGGTTCTCAGTGGATGGAAGGGCCCAGTATGGCTGGGGGACACCCAGAGGGCCGTTTTTCCCCTGAAGACCTCAGGCCTCGGGGAGCTTCAGCCCCAGGAGTGGTGCTGTGGTAACCCCCAAGACCCACCCCACCCCACGACGCGGCCGTACCTCTGCTTGGAGGGTGCTCGGCTGGCTCTCTTTTCTTCCTCCTCCAGACGTCGGCGCGCCTCCTCCAGCTGGGTTAGGGGGTTGGGAGCTGGGTGGGGTGGCATGGTGGGGTCTTGGATGAAGAGGTGGGAGGGCTGCACGGAGGTCCGGAGCTGAGGGCCGGCCCAGGGGTGCTCAAGGGACAAGGGTCTGGAGTTCTCATGGGGCTGTGGCTTCCTCGTCCCCGAAGACCTTGGGGAACAAGAGAACAAGTTGTGACTGTGGCCGACACCCTGGCCAGGTGGCCTGGTGGGGCTACACTCATCTCACAAGGGCAGCCTCCTTGAGGGATAGGATGGGATGGGGCACTGGGGCCTGGCCACCAAGCCACATGGACGTCCTCCACAGACCACACAATAAAAACATCCCggccaggcatggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcatttcgggaggccgaggcgggcagatcaccagaggtcgggagttcgagatcaacctaacatggtgaaacctcatcgctactaaatatacaaaattagctgggcgcctgtcatccctgctactctggaggctggggcccgagaatggctggaactggggaagtggaggttacagtgagccgggatcacgccaccgcactccagcctgggtgacagagtgaggctcagtctcaggaataaaaaagacaacaaaaaaCCAACCCTCATTTgcctgtaatcccaatactctgggaggccaaggtgggtggatcgcctgaggtcaggagttcaagaacagcctggccaacatggcaaaaccatgactctactcaaaaaatacaaaaaattacccaagtgtggtggtggataccagtaattctagttactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacctgggaggcagaggttgcggtgagctgagattgcaccactgcactccagcctaggcaagagtgagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTGGCCAGGCGCGgtaatcccagcacgctgggaggccgaggcgggtggatcatctgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccctgtttctacaaaaatacaaaaagttaactgggcataatagtgggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggtgggttagacaggagaaccacttgaacctgggaggtggaggttgcagtgcgttgacactggcctgttgcactccagcctgagccacaggagcgaaaccccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggccaggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggagggcggatcacgaggtcaagagatcgagaccgtcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccacctctactaaaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgcagtcccagctgctcttgaggctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaacccgggaggcgaggcttgcagtgagctgagatcaggccactgcactccagcctgggcaacagagcaagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTTCTTTCATGGAGACtttttttttttctttttttgagacagagttttgctcttgttgcccaggctgcagtgcaatggctcgacctcggatctcggctcactgcaatctccgcctcccaggttcaagcgactctcctgcctcagccaccgagtagctgggattactggcactcgccaccacacacggctaattttttgtattttttttagtagagatggagtttttgtcatgttggccagtctggtctcgaactccggacctcaagcgatccacctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggatGAGGCTTCTTTTTTTACATTTTATTTTTAACAGCTTTACTGGGATACAAATTATATACTAATCCTAgaggccggcggatagctttgagtccaggaggctgagactgcagtgaacggtgtgattacaccactgcacttcagccagggtgacagagggagactctgtcgcaaaaaattaaaaaaaaagtcttaatgaataaaaaGTATAAGTATGTCTCAAAGTGGAATGTATTAATACTTATCCTAAAATATGGGACATGCAATATTTAGTATATACAGCTATTTAAAAAAAGGATTCggccgggcacggtggctcacgcctgtaatcctagcactccaggaggccgaggcaggcggatcaccaaaggttgggagttcgagatcagcctaacatggcaaccaccccctgccccggtctctactaaaaatacaaaaatcagccgggcgtggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacccaggaggtggaggttgcagttagccaagattgcaccactgcactccagcccgggcgacagagctagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaagaCTCGAAggccaggaatggtggctcatgcctgtagtcccagcattttgggaggccaaggtgggaggatcacttgagcccaaaagcttgagacccagctgggcaacacactgagaccccctctacaaaaaatgagccaggcaaggtgctgtgcacccctgttccctcgggagCCCCAGAAAAACGATGAGCCCGTCCCCACCTCAGTCAGCACCGATGGGGACCCCAAGGCCTTGCGGGACAGGCTTCCAACACAGGCAGGAGGGCCACGCCCCAGGCGCTCAGCTGCCTCACAAGTTCTCATCAAGTAATGTGGAGGGAGATGCGTCCTGGCCAGGGCCTGGGTGAGGGTGGGGGGCAGATCAGGACCTAAGTCTGAGGAAGCTGGGGCCATCCACCCACCAGGGCCAACACTTCCCAGCTGACCTGCCTCTGACCACGACAGGAAGGTGGGGGGTACCACCTCTGTGGGGCCCCTGGCCCTCCTGCTGGGTTCCGGGCACGAGTGCAGGCCCAGGGGGCGAGCAGGAGCAACACCAAGACCGGCCCGGCGGGCAGCGGCAGGGGCTGGACCTGTGGCGCCGGGGCCTTGCTCCACACCACACACGAGGCCTCTGCCCTTCTGGGAGGAGAGAAGTGCTCACGCTACACAAGAGCCTTCCCCAGCCCTCAGCAGGACGGCCAGGTGTGAGCACAGAAGGCTCCTCCGTGGGCACCTCGGGAGTGATGGTCAGTGGGGGCCTTCCCAGGTGACTTAGGTCATTCTCATGTGGGGGTCAGACTGGAAATGACCTCCCGAGAGCATCTGTGCTGCCTGCGGGGTGACAGCCACGTCAGCTTCCCTCCTGCTCGGGGCTTCAGGGACAGCCTCTCTCTGGGGACATGAGGTTTTCCTCCTGGAGACGTGGGGCCCAGGGAGCCTGCTGGAGGGTGCCCGGGAGGGTGCCACAGTGACAGGGGAAGTGTGAGGCGTCACAGGCGACACTCGCCACACACACTGAAGCTGCACACACTGAGACTGTGCGGAGGCCAGGGGTGGCAAAGCAGGCCCCACGAGGCTGGCTGCGTGCGGGGTGCTCACCCGTGGCCGGTCCTGCGGTGCCTGCTGATCTCCTTTTCCCCCTCAATGATCCACTGCATGATTTTCTGGTTCTTCTCCGCATCCTCCGAGGCACCTGGCACCTCGGTGCTGGCGCTCTTCCCCGACTCAGCCTTCTTGGCATTTCTTTTGCACGCCACGCCCACCTTCCCACTGCAAGGGCAAGAGCTGCGAGTCGCCCTGGCCTCCGGTGGCCGAGGCTGTGCCCCTTCCTCGTCTGCGAGGCCCCCTCCTGGCATCTGTAAGGCTCCCGTGGTGCAGCCGCCGCCCGCTGTCCCCTGCCCGCTTGTCCCCCACCCGCTGTCCCCCGCCAGCTTGTCCCCCACCCGCTGTCCCCTGCCCGCTGTCCTGGTGCTGTCTGGGGGTTGGTTTCCTCTCTAAACACACAGGCAGTCACTGCTCACCCCCTGAAGACTGAGGGCCAGAGCGGGAGCCAGGGTCGGGCTGTGTCCCCTAACCTTCATCTCCCACCTGAGGTCACGGCGTGGACTCCCCTGACCCAGGGCCCAGTCCACTCCCTCCAGCAGAGGGGCCTCCTGCCTGTTGCTGGCGGTCCTGGGTTTCCTGAGTTTTATGAGGAGGTTCTGGCCTTCTGCAGGGACACAGCCTCACCCCAAGCCCCCTCCTCACTGACAGGCGCACGCTCACCTGTGGGCGAGGCCATCACTGGCGTTGGGGGCAGCGCCAACACTCTCTGAGTAGCCTCGGGACCTTGCCCCATGGCTGTGTGGTTCCAGGCCCCAGGCGAAGCTGCTCTGGGCCCTGCGGGTGGCCTCGGCCTCCACCTGCTCCTTGGGCCGGGCTGTGCTGTGGTGGACGTGGTGGTGGACGTGTCGGTGGTGGTGCAGGCCGGCCGCGTCCAGCTTCGCCCCTGACTTGGGTACGTGCTTCCCGTGCCCCGAGGCGGCACCCCCCAGTGCCACTGGCATCTTGGCCACGTGCCCACTGTCCGGGGAGCGATGGCCAGGCCCAGGCGACTGGCGGCCAGGTGTCCTCAGCACACGCTGTACGTGCTCGTCCAGGATGCTCTCAGGGTTCTCCTCGTGTGCATCCCGGAGCCCGGCACAGCCCATGTCCACACAGCGGGGCGGGAAGTGGTGCCAAGCGGGGGCGGGAGGCAGCTTGTGACACGGCCCTGGGGGCCCTGACGATGGATCGCCGTCCTCACCTTCCTCCTCCTGTGTGGGGACAAGCAGCACCATCACCTCTCAGCACCAGCTGCACACTTGGGGAAAACAAAAAGCATCAGGCCTGACCCAGCAGCCCCAGCAGATGCCGTCCCAGCCCAGGGTGGCCGGGGGCCCCTCGCCACCGGTCCTGTCCCTGAGGATGGAGAGGCAGGACGGGGCATAGACAGAAGGAGCGGAGACAGCAAGGCCTCAAGGAATGCAGCGTATGTATCGGCTGTGGGCAGAGCTCTGCACAGATTTAGTTTAGttttattctttttttgagacaagttcttgctctgttgcccaggctggagaacagtggtgtgatctcagctcactgcagcctccgcctcctaggctcaagcgatcctcccacctcagcctccagaatagcggagaccacagccgtgtgccaccacgcccagctaatttttttgtactttggggacagatgcgattctcaccatattggccaggctggtctcgaatgcctgagctcaagcaatctgcctgccttggcctGTATATATATATAttttttgagacagagtcttgctctgttacccaggctggagtgcaatggtgccatctcggctccctgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaagtgattctcctccttcagcctcccaagtagctgagactacaggtgtgcgccaccacacccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacaggatttcactatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcatgatccacccacctcggcctcccaaagtgttgggatgacaggcatgagccgccgcgcccggccTCCCATTATATTTTAAGGAGAACCTTGTACAGAACGGCTCTTGGGTTATGTACATGTTGTGATGCTGCCTGACGAGCTTCCACATGAAGCCGGTGGAGTTTCACTTGATTCTCCAAGTTAACAGGTGCTGAAGCTTATCTGTCAGAGCAAACATTTGATCACTTTAATTCCAAGTTGCATCTCATACTTATTTTCTCATCTTATTGGACTGACAAACTAAAACAGTATTGAGTAAATCTGGTGTCAATACAAAAGAAAGAGAGGGAACTAAGTTACCATGTATCTATGTATGTAtttatttatttagagtcagagtcgctctgtcagccaggctggagtgcagtggcacgatcttggctcactgcaacctccacctcccgggctcaagcaatcctcctgcctcagcctaccgagtagctgggattataggagtgtgccaccatgcctgcctaatttttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctaacctcaggtaatccaccaccctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggagtgagccaccacaaccggccTAtttattttcatttttttgagacagagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcacgatctcggctcactgcaacctccgtctcccgggttcacaccattctcctgcctcagcctgcccagtagctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccacgcccggctaattttttatatttttagtagagatggagtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcccgacctcgtgatctgcccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaagtgtgagccaccgtgcccggccTAtttttatttatttaatttttttttgagacggagtttcactcttgtgtcccaggctgtagtgcaatctccgcctcccgggttcaagtaattctcctgcctcagcctcccgggtagctgggattacaggcacccaccaccatgcccagctaaattttttgtatttttagtagagactgggtttcaccctgtttgccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccacccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctaggattacaggtgtgagccaccacaccTAATCgcagtggtgccatcacagctcaaggcagcctcaacctccaggggtcaagcgatcctcctgcttcagcctgccaagtagctgggactacaggtgcatgccaccatgtcccattaattttttctttttcttttttttttgtagagatggggaatctcactatgttgtccaacctgctcttaaattcctggcctcaagtgatccttctgtcttggcctctcaaagtgttgggattacagatgtgagccactgtgcccCACCTACCTCTATATTTTAATATAAACAAACCTCCCAACGTTTAGCACCCAACTCTCACACCTGCAAAAGTATCCAAATGCAACTGGAACAGGCGTGCCCCAGAGCTGGTGTGGGCTTGGCTGCGGGCACCTGCACTGGGGCTGAGGGTGAAATATGGCACTAAAGAGGACAGACGGATGCTGGAGCAGAGCCGGGGGACAGGTGGGTGGTGGGCATCCCCTGGCGGATGCAGCTATGCTGCCTCCCTTTCCTTGGTTTTGTAGGACTAaagggcccgggcactctggggagaaatcttaaccgagggtcttcctagggactaaaagtgtttggagttttgATGCCGTTCACTGCCTTGGCCGAGCTCCACATCGGCAGGAATTCTATCATGGGGCTGTGAAATGTTACAGATTAACTTAACCACTCGGCTAATGGTTTTTGTTTTCTTCTTTGTGCTTTAATTTCCCAAATTTCACAATGAAAATAGGTTATTTAAAAAATCTGGAgttcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggtggatcacaaggtcgggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaattagccgggcgtgatggtgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactggggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggcagagcttgcagtgagctgagatcgtgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactctgcctcaaaaaacaaaacaaaacaaagcaaaaaaaaaaAAAAAACTGGAGTTATTCCTTTTAGGGAAGGACCACCACTCCTGGGCCCTGGTGGTGCTGGATCCACACACCTGTGGGCACTGCCATGCTCCCTGTTGCTGGGACAGAGCCAGGACTCCATGGGGTGGGGAAGCCTTGAGAGTCACAGGTGAGAGCCACACACTCAGCACCTGTGGCTACGCCTGCCTTTAACATGTCTTGCTTAAggccaggcacggtggctcgtgcctgaaatcccagcacttcgggaagctgaggtaggaggatcacttgaggccaggagttcaagaccagtgtgggtaatatagcaagattccatctctacaaaaaTATTTTTTTTAAAAAATGTCTCACTCAAAATGGGAACCTGCCCTACTAGAAGCACACCCTGCGAACGGGTGAAGGCGCAAAGATCAGAAAATTACAGACGGCCAACATGACAGCAAAGCGTTCCACAGAAAATTACAGCGGCCGGCGACCGACACAACAACAAAACAGCAAAGGCTTCTGCAGAAAATGACAGCGGCCAACACGGCAGCAAAACAGCAAAGGCTTCCTTTCTTACGTTTCTGTTGTGAGCATGTTTGTTTAAGGGCTGCTAACCTTCACCTGCCACCCAAATGATGATGCTGACGTCACAGCCCGTGGGCCCGGATGTGGCCTGCGGACATGTCCATATTCTTGGTAACTCTGTTCCCAATGTTTGGTTTTCAGACAACAGCCCAGTAAGGCTCCCAGGCAGGCCCCAATGCCGCTGGCCTCAGGTGCGCACAGCCAGCCTCCTCAGGGCCACCCCAGGAAGCAAGCGAGCCGCTCCAGTGACCACCAGGTCTGCAAGGCGAGGCCTCACTCTCACCGCCACAGGGACCACGCGGCACTGATGCTGCTCCTGCCAGCCCTGCGGCCCCGGCTAGGTTCCCGATATTGGAGGACAAATTCCCTGAGTCCTTTCCTTGGGGGACTGTGGAGAAGGTGAACTTGGCACCTGCAGAGCCCTGGAGCTGGCACCACCCACACCTGTGCCCTACCCAGATGAGGGTCACCCTCAGACCAACGGCCAGGGGAGACGAGAGGATGCAGCTCCACATGGTGGCAAAACAATTTACTGAGGATAAAACAAATCGACGTCTGTGTGTGAGACATTTCCACACAAACCCCTTCATGGGGAGCTCCACCATCTGCAGCGACCACACCTGGTCCCCGCCATGAATCCCAGCTGCTCAACGAGCTATGTAAGGTCTGCCTGCCATCTCAATGGAGTGCCCGGCGCACGGTTTCCCAGATGGGCACCACCAGCGGCACCCTGCGTCCACCCTCACGGTGGCATCTCCAGGCTTCAGGGCACAGCTCACCCGGGTAGCGGGTGAAAGAGTGAGTGTACCGAGGGGTCTCCTGTGGTCTGAGGAGAGCTGAAGGTCTGCATTTTACATCAAGGATCAGGTGAATGGAAACGCTCAGAAGTGTATACATTTTCTAAGTATTCATATTCACGAACATTGAAAGGAGAATGAAGGACCACCCCCCGACTCGATGGTGCCCACTGACCTCCCATAGGAATTAATCTGGCTAAGAGAAAAGCAAAGGCATTTTTTtttggcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcacagcctcggctcactgtagacctgacctcctgggctcaagtgatcctcccacctcagcttcctgaatacctgggaccacaggtgtgtgccaccacgcccagctaattttgaaattttttctagagacaggaatttgccacattgcccaggctgggctcaaactcctcggctcaagtgcttcactcgcctcagcctcccatagtgttggggtcacaggtgtgcactgcccgcccggccAGCAAAGGCAGCCTTGCAAGtgagacgaccaggtgggaaggggtctccagagaaactccagccggcctgcgcactgggaggagcgcacactggggtggagccacagaagtctgcaccatttgcagcggggaggagccaggccccgcgtcttcctaggtggaacctgggattcaatctgcgaggcgggaagcacactagcagaactctggctttgcgggaagtgattttttttttttttgaggtagagtttcactcttgtcatccaggctggagggcagtggcgcaatcttggcacactgaagcctctgcctcctgggttcaagcgattctccagcctcagcctcctgagtagttgggattacaggcacctgacaccaacccggctaatttttgtatttttcattagagatggggtttcaccattttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcaggtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaaattgctgggattacaggtgtgagccactcgcccgcccgtttccctttttaccttttcacccaataaactctgtccttctcacccttcgaattgtctgtgagcctaatttttcgtggccatgtgaaagggacctgtttttagctgaactaagcaaagagtcctacaacaCAAGTGCCTAGAGGGCCGTGCACCATGGCCTCAAGGAACCAAAAGTGACCAGGAGGTGGCAGAAAGTCTCAGGCATCGCAGCCCCCGACTGCACGCCACTAGCCCTTCCTGCTCTGCACATGCTCATCTCACTTGCCAGCCACACGGGGTGAAGAAGTTGAGATCACCCGCTGCAGTCTCAGCTTGTGGCCCTGCCACCCACAAAGGATCAGGTACACAGCAGGCAGCCGTGTCACCCCCGGCCCCTTCAATGCAGGTGACCAAGGTGGGTCTCTGGGCCTCTGAGGGTGGCATGGGGCCGCTGGGACATCCCATCTTGAGCTGGGGCTCGGCTGCAGAGAAAGGGGAACAGGGGACTCAGCCGGGAGGCCTCATGGGTCAGCAGGCCTCGGCCAGCCCCGGGCATCCCCATGAAGAACATCAGGACATCCCGGCGGCAAGAAAACAGCACGACACCGACGCGGAGCGCGACACCGACGCGGCCCACTCACCATGCGCACGCGCTTCAGCCGCTCCTCCAGCTTCTCCTCGGCCTCCCGCGTGCGCTGCACAGCCTCCAGGCGGTGGATGAGCTCCTCCGCGAACTTCTGAGGCTCCACGCGGACCTCCTTCGGCACCCGGTACGTGCGCTGCGAGGGACAGGACTGTGAGGCACGGGGGTTGAAAGGTCACAGGCTAAACATTTCTTTGTGAAGGGAAAGAGCGTGTGCTATCTCTGTTGTAttttattttatttttttgagacaaactcttgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcaatggcgtgatcttggctcactgcaacctctgcttcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcggtctcccaagtagctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccacgcctggctaatttttgtattcttagtagggatggggtttcgtcatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatctgcccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccgggcccggccTTTGTTGTATTTTAAAGCAAGAGTTTACTTTTTCCTCCTTTCAGTTGGGAATCAACTTCCTCACGGTCCCCCTTTTCGTGTCCGGCCAGTCTGTCCTTCATTCCCCACGGACCCAGGAGACAGGGCTGCTTCTTTCCAGCGTCTCCCGACTACCAGATCAAGAGGCCTGAGCAGGGCAGCTTCAGGACACACAGCCGGCGCTCCCCACCCACTTCAGAGAAGCACTCGAGGAGACGCCTGCAGAAGGTGTGAGCAGAAGGCCCCCGAGGCCCCACGGCAGGGAAGGACGCCCAGGATTTGGAGGACAGGGGAGGTCTGGGAAAGGCAGGCTTTCCTTTTTAAAAGAATCTAAAggccaggtggtggctcacgcctacagtcacagcattttgggaagcagaggcgagcagattacttgagcccagaaattaagagaccagtctggccaacaaagtgagacctcatctctacaaacaaaaattttttttaattagccgggtgtggtggcacctgtggttccgactacttgggaggctgaggtgggaggatcggatcgcataagtcctgggagatcaaggctgcagtgagccgagatcatgccactgccctgcagcctgggtgaaagagtgagaccctgtctcaaaataataacaaTACATCTGCAATGTATTTTATAGTAATATACCATATAGCTTGTttgtttttggttttttttgtttttgtttttgagacagggtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgtagtggcgcgatttcggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcctgccaccatgcccggctaatttttttgtatttttagtagagacaggatttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcaatctcctgacctcgtgatccgcctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccactgcacccggccCCCCTATAGCtttttttaaaaatagagatgggggtcttgctgtccaggctggcctcaaactcctcccacctaggcctcccaaagcactgggattaccggtgtgagccaccacgcctggccCTGTGTAACTTTCAAGGGTACttcattttaaatttcaaacttcaaaacagctgcaaaaatagaacaaggaattcccgtccaccttcacccagattccccaagggctcacattctgccataactgctttatcatccccttaccggcaggcacatgcgtacacacacatgcccacacatgcgcaggcacacacacccacacacacgtacacacacacgcacacacacaggcacgctcacttttctgaaccagttagagtgtatttaacaaaagcaaggtcgctctcatacctaaccacagtacaaatatggatggttaaaaaaactgaccctgatacaataacatcacgtggcagatcttattccaattttgccagctgctccaataacatccttcatagcaaaaCATGTTTTAAAATCCAGGCCGCCAGTGTCTAAGCCGCGGAGGGATGCAGCCAGGGACAGCTCCCCTGTGACAAGCAAGCAGGGTGGCAGATGGGAGGTGGGACCCTCCGTGTGTGTGGCCTTCCTGCCCTCCCGCCGTGGGCTCTGGCGCAGTCCTGGCTCTGTGCACCCGTTTCTCATCTACACAATGAGAGTAGAAACAGCATCTAAACCTGAGAAGGATGGGGTGAGACTGGACACAGGGGCCACACAAAAGGCCTCCTCCAGGCTCAGATGTTCCACAGTAGACGAGGCTCAGAGAGAGGCTGGCCCTGGAGCCACAGGCTTCACTTCAAGGAACGTGGAGTATGAAGGGGCCAAGGGCACGCCCAGGACACTGGGTGATGCCTCAGAGCTGGGAAAAGTCACTGCTGGAGTCTGGGCCGTGCACAGCGCCAGGAAGGGGTCTGTCCCGGAGCCAAGGAGGAGCATCCAGTGCTTCTGGAAGATGATGAGGAAGGCTGGGGCTGGCACCAGCAGGGATGTGGGCCGGTGTGTCCGGGTGTGTGGACGGCAGGGCGTCCACACAGATGGCAAGGAACTAACAAGCCACCCTTTCCCGCTGCACCCGGGGCCTGGAGGCTGGGTGGCTGGGGGGCCATGCTGGCTTTTCCGTGCCCAGTGCTGGGCAAGGCGCAGACGTGGGAGTGGCACACACAGGAATGGGAGCTGCCAGCACTGCAGGGACCACGGCTGCTGTGTCTGCAGACAGCCAGAGGCGCAGACAGACGCGCTTATGGTCTGAACAGTCAGCACCACAGAGACCAAGGGCAGGATGAAAAGCCCATCATCAGGCCCAGAGAGCAGCACGGCTGAGGGGCCAACAGGAGCACTCATGCCGCCACGCGAGCTCCATAAAAAGACTCCAGGTGGCCTTGCAGGCTGCGTCACCACGGTTCTGAGAACAGCAAAACTGTCAGAGTCATCAGATTTACAGAGAATGGCAACCTCTCCAGCTTTAGAGGAACAGAAAAAAATATCATAAAGGAAAAAGCCAAGTAAATGAAAACGTGAAACTTCCAAGTAATTGTAAAGGCTAAAGATGAAGAGGCCCCTCCCCGCAGGGCACGCATTCTGGTACCAGATGCTGTAAAGCCAcggcccccaaccttttggcaccagggaccagttttgtagaagacaatttttccatggacagtgggggcagggggcttttcgggatgaacctgctccaactctgatgggcaggtgttaaagagtctcacaaggtgcacacagcctgggcctccgtgggtgcagccacaacagggttctgctcctatgagcgtctaaGCTACTCCCCTCCTGCTGTCCCTGCTGCAGAGCCATGGACTCACCAGAGAAACGGCATAGCTTTTGCAAAACCAAGGCCCTCAACAGAGCAGAAGTGGGCAGTGCAACCACGGCACGTCCTGCTAGCTTATCGGCTTCCTGGGCCTCCCCCCGCCTCTGCTCACCACCATCCTCGGGTCCAGTTTCCCAGTAGCAGCAGTGAGCAGGCCCCGGGCAGCTGTGCCCGTGATGTGGGTTTCTCACTTGGGCCTCTGGCTGAGGGACCTCCCACCGAAGGTTCCAACCACAGCCCCACCTGACAGGCCACATGGACCTGATGCAGGTTCCTACAGAGCCTCCGATGAGGTTGTTTGCTGCAGACTGTTCACACAGAAACGCACACTGCGGCCCCCACCCCACCACACAAGGGCCCTCTGGGGGTGCGGAACGCAGCAGGGCCTGCTCCTGTCTGTGCCTGCCGCCTCTGTTGGCTTTCATCTTCCTGGCGACTCAAATGTGACCCTCCAGGACCTGAGGGCTCTGTGCTTCCCTCGGTTCTGGAAGGTTCTGACGACGACACCAGGGACTCGCCATAGGCATCCTCTTTTCTCTGTGTTGCATCCTGAGAGGTCTTTCCAGGTCCACGTTCCAGGCACCAACGCACTCCACAGCTTCTGTCCTTCCTGACCCTTCTGAGGGGAGGTTGTCTGCCTGATGCCCCCTCATCCAGAGTCTGTGGCATGCACTTTCTACACACGAAGACTCTGACCAGCACCCCAAAATCGGGGCACCCCTGTGGACAGAAGCCTCCCGCGGGCCTCAGCCCACTCAAGCCCCGTCCTCATGGGCACAGAGGGCTGTTCCGGGCCTGTGGTTGCTCAGCTGTCTTGTCTCTCGGGCCTCCGTCATCCCAGCGGCTCCGCGGGTTCTTGACGTTCAGGACCTGTGACTTGAAAATCAGAGGCCGGTGGCTGTGCAGGTGCCCTCGACTTGGGCTGTGACCTCATGATAGCCTTGGGCCATGCCTGGCAGGCAGGGCCCCAGATCTTCCACAGcacaagcacgcacacacgcacgcacccacacacAGCCTACAGTGTCAGCCACTTTTTGTTAAGTAGACACCATCAGTGCCTAGTTTTAGCCAAACCTGAGTCAAGGGTTGGCTGGCATCTTCTCAGAAGTGATAACAAACCAACATCCTTTCTTTTCAACCATAAAGAAATTCCTGACTTGGAAACTGATGTCTGCAGAAAAGCTAAAAGGCTAAGAAATCCTGACCAAGACTGTGTCAGTGCTCTCAAAATGCCTACTTCCCTGCACAGACACTCAGATGGTCACGTGGTTTAACCTCAGACACCGCGGCTAACAGTGCGTTgcgcagtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaaacgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaatacggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcaggcgcctgtactcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatgacgtgaacccgggaggcagagcttgcagtgaCAGCAAAACTCCTATCTCAAAAAAAAAAAAAGAAAACACTTTTCTCATCTTCCCGTAACATCTTTCCTGTTCAAAGTCAACCCATCAAAATAAGGAAAGATCATTAATCTGTTCATCAGCGCAGGAATGCTCTGTAGACGGAGTCAGGCTGTGCTGGGCTCCAGCTAGCACTCAGCTCCATGACCTACTGCCCAGCCAAGCCCCCATGCCCGAGACTGGGCAAAGGTGCCATTATTCTATGCAACAGCGAAAGCCAAGGCAGCTTTAAAGTCAAGACGTTTACCTGGAGACGACCACTGTTCAGCCACAAAAACACCAAGTTTTCCCCAAGGGCTGTGCAGGGGCCAGGCCTGGGCTCTGAGTCTTGAGAAAGGCTCAGAGCTCCCCCTCTTGAGGGGAAGCATCCACCTTCACAAGGCAAGACACTTCCTGCCACCAGGGAGGGTGTGGCCTTGGGGCATGGGGGCTCTTCTGAATGAACAGCTCCCTCTGGGCCCTAAATGCTGCCTGAGACTTGATGTCCCCTGCTGCCCTCAGGGACTGGCCACTTGCAGATGTTGCTGGGATCACACGCTTACGCCTAGAGGTAAGCCTGGCTCGTGGGAGGCCAGGCAAGTGCCTTTCCCGCGGACCAGTTCACCAGGCCCACGCTGAGCGGGGAGGACGATGGGCTGAGGACCGCAAAGCCGGTACTTACGGGAATGTGAGGTAGGGGCACCCGCCCATTGACCTGCACGCTCTCCTGCATCTCCCTGCGGTGCTGCTTACGGATCCTGTATGGGGGGATCCCATCCCTGTCCAGGAGAAAGAGGCAGCCGTTAACTCAGAGAGGAGCAGGAGGGCCAGCACCGTGCCAATAGAGCTCCTGGCCCCGACCGCCGGTCAGCAGGCAATGATGAGGACACCTGTGAGCCACCACCACTGAGACACGTGCACACAGGTGATGCAGGCACCCATGTGTGCACAGGGGAACATGTACACACAAAGGTTCACACGTGATGGTAAAGCCCAGGTGCCCAGCCACGCGTCTTCCTAGCTGGTATTTACTGGGCACCTCCACAAAGCCTCCTTGTGCCTgcctgttctttagggcctgacagctaagagtggtttctacatttttttttcttcttttttttgagatggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatctcggctcactgcaagctccacctcccgggttcacgctattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccacgcccagctaatttttttgtatttttagtagacacggggtttcactgtgttagccaggagagtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcgcaaagtgctgggagtaattacaggcgcaagccacggcgcccggccaaggtttctacatttttaaagggtgggggaagaatctgtgacagggactgcatgcggctgcaaagcctcacatattcactgccagccctgcacgggaaacgtttgctggcccctgCTTGTGGCCTAGACCACTGTGCAGTGTGCCTGCCTTGGAGGGCATTGCTAAATGGACCAAAAACATTTCAGGATTGCACAGTGGGCAGCCAGGACAACCAGTGCCCCACGGAAAGATAGGAGATGCCAAGGCTGCACACTCTGCTTCTCTCCAGGAGCTGGCAGGGCAGTGTGGTCTCTGAGGGAGGCACAAGGTAGCTCTTTAGCAACAGGttttcttttatttttttctttttgagacggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgtagtggcgcgatctcggatcactgcaagccgctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtattatttagtagagacggggtttcactgtgttaaccacgatggtctcaatctcctgaccccgtgatccgcctgcctcggcctcccaaactgctgggattacaggcatgcgccaccgcgcccagccCGCAACAGGTTTTCTTTATGAACCCTTTAGAAGATCATTAAAACACGAAAGTCAGATTATACATGGTCTGAATAATTACCCCAGGGTTAAGATAACTCACGCACAACCATCCTTCATGAAAGCCCTCGCCCTCTCCCAGCTATTAGAAAAGCTGCCTTCGggctgggcgcagtggctcatgcctgtcatcccagcactgtgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcgagtgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggcggaggttgcagtgaggcgagattgtgccactgcactccagtctgggcaacagagcaagactacgtctcaaaaaagaaaaggaagaaagaaagaaaaGCTGCCTTCGGAAGCACGGCAGCTCCAGGGATCCGTGCCGCACCCAGGGGCCTCTCAGAGCTGCCAGGAGACACAGGACGACTGAAGAGAGCGCCCGACCCAGGGCTGCGTGGCAGACACGGCAACTCCTGAGGCATCCTCGGCTGTCACAGCACCACTGAGTGTTGTGGGCAATGGTGAGCCGAGTCCAGGTCTGGCTCAGCCACGGTGGGCGTCAGGAACAAGTGAATCTAAAACTCACCTAACACTTGCCTCGGGGTTTGTTGAAGTGTCCTGAAGCCACCAACCTACTGGTTTCTTAGACATGATACTTGGATTGGGTAACCTCCACAGGCCTCCGTGGATTAGACACTGACCCCACATCTGTGTCCACAGCCCACAGCCTCTCGAGTGCCATGTGGAATGTTGTGAGCTTGCCGCCAGCACAAAAGCTGAGGGCAGCTGCCCCACCGGAATGATGCTCTTCACCTGTCCACTTTTTACCTCTGATTTGCTTTCGAGTACGTGTAGCAATTTCACATTCCAAATTGTTAAACACTTCAGTACAAACCAAGATGAACAGAATATCAAGAAAAAAAATACCTATTTATTTTAGGTCCTCCCTTTAGGAAACATATGTCCCTTTTCTTGGAGAGAATTAGGAGACTTTTTGAGAAAACTGAGTTGGCAGGTTACTTTTTGTTGTAGTAACAGAGTTTTGGGGAAGAGGGAAACCAGATGCTAGGATGCATGTCAGGCGCTCCGTGGGCTGCACTGCACCCAACCACCTGGCCCGAGGCTTCAGGACCACGGCAGGCACTGCTTCAACTCCAGTAACCTCAAGTCAGGTGCTGCTAAAATCACGTCAACATTTTATTTTGAAGATTCAAAATTAAACGAGGATGAAAGAAACCAGGAGAAGCCACACACAGCAGCTCTGCCCGGAAGGGGCAGGGAGCTGCCCCTGCACTACCACAGCTACCTGGGGAAAAACCAAGGGGCCAAGACCTACGGCAATGTGGGCTGGCTGAATCTGGTTCAGAAACAGAATGTGACAACTTGTTCTCCTCATCTGAAATTCAGGTTTTGGAAAAATGTTTAAAGACAGGCAAATGAAAAGAACAAACCagccaggcacagtggctcatgcccataatcccagcactcgtgaggctgaagtgggtgcagtttgcgcccaggagttggagactgcatagtgaggcctcgtctccacaaaaaTAATCATCATCATCagccggatgcagtggctcatgcccgtaatcccagcactcatgaggctgaagtgggtgcaccgtttgagcctcggagttcgagactgcatagtgaggcctcgtctccacaaaaattataataatcattagccaggcgtggtggcgcacgcttgtagcctcagcaactctgaaggctgaggcagaattgcttgggaccaggagacagaagctacagtaagccaagatcgcaccattgcagtccagcctgggtgacagtgagatcctgtctcaaaatgaaaagaaccataaaaaTGGTACATACAGTGGGACCATCACTTAAAACATATTCATAAAAAGATGGGCAGAATCACCAGTAGGTGAGAAGTCCCTCTCTCCTCCTCCAGCCCTATCCAGATCTCCAGGCTTTCCTCATGGAGAACCCAGCTAAGCGGGAAAGACATCTGGGACACCACTGGCCGCAGTGGGGATGGAGGGTGGTGGTCCGCGGGCTCCAGCTGCTCACAAGTTCATAGCCGCTGGCTTCCTCCAATGCTGAGGCTGCTGCAGGGAGACCCTGGTTCCTGCGGCTCGGCCCCAGCCCTGGCTAGGATGGCTGGTGGGCAGGTGGCGTGTGGCGCACAGACCAGAGCTGGGAAGGTCTGAGCTTCATGGGTAACCAAAACCCCAAATGACCCCCACAGGCTGGCAGCCAGTGCCCTACTGCAACAAGACTGTTGGCATCATCTAATGGCTGGGGTGTACATAGGTCCCAAAAAGCCAGCTGCGAAGCACAGGGGAAGAGGTCATAAAACAAGCACGTTCCTACACATGGGGTTTCCCTGGACAATGAAAGAATAAGCTTCTGCCTGTCACCTCGAGCGTCACACATGTGTGGCCCAGGCCTCAGCACAACCACAGCATCTTCCCTCACTCCTGCTCCCAGCCCCTTGCCAAGTGGGTGACAGGGACAAGACAGGACCCTGTACTGCACCAGCGTCGGCAGAAACGCCACCCTCAGGGACCACATCACTCGCCACAGCCAGTGGTGAGGCAGCTGGCCTGTGCCTGTCTTTAAGCTGAAACCCCAGACTCTGAAAACCAAAGAGCAAACTCTAGCCCGGGCAGCCTACAGACTGTCTTAGGTTCACCCTCGATCCTTCCTCATAGGGAGGTCCCAGCAGCCCTGGTCACAGAGAGAAGCAACCGACACAAAGCTGAGCCCTCACTTGTACTGCTTGGAGGACAGCCTCTGCGGTACAGCCTGCCTGCATGTCCAGACGCACTCTCACTGAGACCTGGGGAGCCAGGAAACACTTTTCCTGAAGACAAAGCCCAGGCATCTCTGGGTCAGCACGAAGCCCCCTCTGAGCTGGCCGCGCTCTGCAGCAGGGTGGGACTTACACGCTGCCATCCGCAAGAAACAGGGTGTCTGGGGCAGGACTTACACATTGCTGTCCTCAAGGGACAAGGTGTCTGGGACCGGACTTACACACTGCTGTCCGTGAGGGACTGGGTATCCGGGGCGGGACTTACACGCTGCTGTCCGTGAGGGACAGGGTGTCTGCATCGCTGGACAGGCTCTGCTGCTCGCTGTCGTTGGCACTGGTGGCTGGGGCCAGGGCATAGCCGGCATTGACATAATAGGGGTTGACTGGCTCCCGCCAGGATCCATACCTGCAAACAGGCAAGCAGGGCATGTTAGTGACAGCCTGCCAACAGCCTCTCATTTTATTTCACATTTTCATGTTATCTGAATATCTCAATGTATTAATTAAAAACACAAGCAATTTGGAGAAAATAAGGAGCATGGAGAAAAGACCAACATCTCCACCTGTCCTCTTGTCCCTCTGTCCTTTTCAACGGGGTGCATTAAAGCACCGGGCATCTTTCCAGATCTCTCCTCTGATTTTAGGCGGGGGCTTTGGTGCACACACAGAGCATCCACACGTGATCATTTGGGTTTGTTTTCCGTGCACGGTACTAGAAATGGGACGCAGATGTTCTGCTCATTCTGCAGTGCGCGTCGGGAGAGGACACTGGGTTTTGATCAGGATGAGGCCCTTGGGATTCAGCTCAGACGTCTCTGCACCTGTGCCCAAGTCCAAGCATGGCCACGGGACTGATGTCAGGGCCGGTATGTGACAGTGTGTGTGGGTGGTGCCACCTCCTGTCCCCCTACCTAGAGCAGAGGTTCCTCCCCAGCTCCTGGGACGATTCACCTCCTCTTGTTACTGCAAAATTAGCCAGGAAATGACACCTTTtttcaatctgcacttccctgattaatggtcagattggcagtttagcgtatttgtcatttaaacttcttcctctttatctgttcatatggtttaccattttctatggggtggattatgagtttcttggtgatttacagaagtcttcaaatagacttgttattaatctctggttatatacgcaaaaaacattttctccctaaatgtcatttttctttttaacattgctcaggttgattttggtcaaacaaaatttttcatttctatgaaatcagacaggccgggtgcggtggctcatgcctttaatcccagcactttgggtggccgaggcaggcagatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagactacttcggaggctgaggcgggagaatagcgtgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcagtaagctgagatcacgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcaagactctgtctcaaaagaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaacagcctgaccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctagtaaaaatacaaaaattagctaggtgtggtggcacgcacctgtaatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaagagaatcgcttgaacccgggaggcagagattgcagtaagctgagatcgcagcactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagtaagactctgtctcaaaaataaaataaataaatcaatcagatattccaatcttttcctttatttatttatttattttctattttggaaacacagtccttccttattccagaattacacatatattctatttttctttatatgctccagttttttttagaccttCACCTGAAATGTGTGTATACAAAATCTAGGCCAGTCCAGCAGAGCCTAAAGGtaaaaaataaaataataaaaaataaataaaatCTAGCTCACTCCTTCACATCAAAATGGAGATACAGCTGTTAGCATTAAATACCAAATAACCCATCTTGTCCTCAATAATTTTAAGCGCCTCTCTCCACCACATCTAACTCCTGTCAAAGGCATGTGCCCCTTCCGGGCGCTCTGCTGTGCTGCCAACCAACTGGCATGTGGACTCTGCAGGGTCCCTAACTGCCAAGCCCCACAGTGTGCCCTGAGGCTGCCCCTTCCTTCTAGCGGCTGCCCCCACTcggctttgctttccctagtttcagttacttgcgttcagccaaggtctgaaactaggtgcgcacagagcggtaagactgcgagagaaagagaccagctttacagggggtttatcacagtGCACCCTGACAGTCGTCAGCCTCACAGGGGGTTTATCACATTGCACCCTGACAGTCGTCAGCCTCACAGGGGGtttatcacagtgcacccttacaatcattccatttgattcacaatttttttagtctctactgtgcctaacttgtaagttaaatttgatcagaggtgtgttcccagaggggaaaacagtatatacagggttcagtactatcgcatttcaggcctccacctgggtcttggaatgtgtcccccgaggGGTGATGACTACCTCAGTTGGATCTCCACAGGTCACAGTGACACAAGATAACCAAGACACCTCCCAAGGCTACCACAATGGGCCGCCCTCCACGTGCACATGGCCGGAGGAACTGCCATGTCGGAGGTGCAAGCACACCTGCGCATCAGAGTCCTTGGTGTGGAGGGAGGGACCAGCGCAGCTTCCAGCCATCCACCTGATGAACAGAACCTAGGGAAAGCCCCAGTTCTACTTACACCAGGAAAGGCCCTTTGACAAGATGGGAGGGGGGCAGGCAGCCCAGCACCTTGGACTCTGGTGACATGGGATGCCTGGGGAGATGAGCGAGCACTGCGAGCTGGGGACAGCCTGTGGCGGTGCTGGGCAGGGCCTCGCTGCACGGGGCCATTTCCCCTGGGGCTGTGGCCTCCATGCCCTCTGGAGGGTATCGCATGGGGCCAGAACACACAAGCAGGGCCTTTCATACGAACAGTGCTGGTGACCGTGCTCAGCTGCTCGGGAGGCAGGTGCAGGACCCCATGCCACAATGGAAAACACGGTTCACGATGTCAGGCCCCTGCCAGGGCCGATGTCCACGAGTCCCTCTGACCCACCCACTGTGGCCTGGTCGCTCACTGCAGGCCACAGACAGTCACGGCCAGGTGACGGCAGCCTCAGGCTGACAGCAACCATGGGGCCGCTCTTGGGAAATGGGTTCTCTGGAAACACCGACCACCGGTGGCTGGGCTTTGTAAGTTTGGTTCACTCCTCGTCTCCTCTCTGTACCTGACATAGAGCAGATAAAATGATACCAGCCTGCAGCTTCAGGCTCTTTGCTTTAAGCATCATGCAGTATTTATAAATGACACCATTATTCCTTTGATACTTAAAGCCACAGCTGCTCAGCAGCTACTGATATTATCACTGTAACAACCACTGCAGCCAACCTCAGATCTCAGGTTAAGTACTAAAGTCTCCCTATTACTATGAAGGAACACTGAACTTTGGTAACTTTCTATAAACATCTATTTGGCCAAATAAAAACATTTCAAATGGAAGAGAGAAGGCCACTGCCGCACAGAAGTTTAAGAAGTCTACGTCCACGGCACACGGGTGCATCTGTAGCCCACGGCACTTGGTGCGTCTGTAGCCCACAGCACACGGCGCGTCTGTAGCCCACGGCACATGGCGTGTCTGTCTTGGCACGCACTGGAAGCACGTGCCCTGCCCTCATGCTGCCATGGGGCTCACACCTGTCCCGTCACTTGGGAGCCACATACAGCAGAACGAAGCCTTCTGTGTTCATGTGTCCAATTCCAAATCCTTCTCCCACTCTGACTTCCCAGGTGTGCCTTTCACATTTTTGGAAAACCTGTTTGTCTTTAAAATGAGAAGCAGGAGAAACGCAGGTTTCCCATTTTCCACAAGCTCCAGCACACAGCAAGTTCCACTGCACACAAGCACCAAGGTCAGGCAGCAAAGGGGAGAGAAGCGGGAGAAGGCGGCTGGGAGAAAAGAAAAGGAAGAAGGGCAGCCTGTTTACTATTGATCTTCGTAACAATCCCAGACAACTGCCCTGGCTCTCAGGATCTGCCCTCAGCACTCAGATGGCTCCTGTACCTGAAGACACAGGCGGCCGGGCTTGGCCTTCACTACCAGCAGATGCGACCAAGAACGTTCTGGTCAAAGACACGTCCAAGGGGAGGTCACATGGGAGTTCCAGGATCCCCCCATATAGCTGGGATCCAGTGGCGGGAGGGGCATgtgctcgcgtgcctgcctgtgcgtgcgcctatggatgcgtgctttgtgtgtgcatgcccacgtatccatctgtgtgcgcgcccgcatgcccatgtgtgcacctgtatgcCCGCCCTTCACGAGCACCTCCACCTACACCTGCACTTCTCAGACAGTGGAGATGCTGACCCCTGGCTGTGTGCGGTGAGAATGCGGCTGGGGCCTTGGTGAGAGCGGCTCTGACCCCTGGCTGTGCAGAGAGAATGCAGCCGGGGCCTTGGTGAGAGTGGCTCTGACCCCTGGCTGTGTGTGGAGAGAATGCGGCCGGGGCCTTGGTGAGAGCGGCTCTGGCTGTGCGGAGAGAATGCGGCCGGAGACTTGGTGAGAGCTGTGCCCAGCCCCCCACGCTGATGACCTCAAACAGGAAAACGTGCACAGCTCTTCTGGAACAGGTGCCAGGACTCAGGCAGAGTCCGGGGACACAGAGGCTGGGAGACCCTGTAGAGCCAGGTAGTGACAGACTCCTCGCAACTCTTCTGTGTGTTCAAAGGCTTTCTTTAGGGTCCggtgtggtggcgcacacctagaatcccagcgacttgggagggtaaggcaggagactcgctggagcccgggagtctgcagtaagatatgatcacgccactgtgttccagcctgtgctccagactctgtctcaaaaacaaaaaTGTCGTGGAGAGGAGGCATGAGAAGACACGGTGACTTAGGGAAAAACGTGCCCATCACAGAAGGGAAAGTCCAGTGGAGCGGTGAGGAGGCGCTGATGGCAGAATCAATGCCCAGGAGCTGTGTCATAAACAAACACCTGTGGGGTTTGACAGCTACAAGGACCCTATTAGCTTCAAGGCAACAGGAAATGAGAAGCCATGAGGCGGCCAGTGCACTCTAGGCTGGCCTAGGAGGCCCAAATGTCAGGGCCACACAGAAGGTCTCCCCTGCCCAGGTGTTCATGGATGGTGGAGAAAGGTGCTCCTCCTGCCCCAGGAAGGCACCTCTCTGGGACTCCCGCGGCTGCTCCCACATCCAGCATGGCCACGGCACCGGCTCTCTGGTCACTGTGGTACTTTCATCTTCCGTCTTTTCACATTTAACCATTCTATATTCTTCTACTTGTGTAAGCAGCCTGCCTTTTAAAAAGGTAGCATAACAATTTTTCCTTTTAATGAGGCTGTCTGGTCCGGTTACATTTAGTGTGATGTGGAGGGAGCTGGGCCACCGTCGGATCGGGTTGGTTTATCACATCTGCTCTACTTCCTTTTGCTCTTTCTTGCCTTCTTTGGGGTATTTTTTGCTTTCCATTTCCTCCCTCTGAAAAAGTAAATGTTGTACAGTTCTTTCATTGGTTCCTGTGCCTGGACATGTCTCAATCCCACACATCACACCTGCCTCTTCCCAGGCCGCATGAGAACCTCAGAACCGACAGCCCCCCACACACTCACAAGCAACGCATTTCCTGCACTGACATTTTCTTTTTTATTCCCTGGActcccaccttagcttcccaggtaggtgggacaacaggcgcacactaccactcctggctactttttcattttttatatagatgaggtctcactatgtcacccaggctggtcttgaactcttgggctcaagtcatctgcccacctcggtgtccgaatgtgctgggattacaggcatgagccatcatgcctggccACAAATCAGATCATTTTAATTACTGAACTGCAAAGGGGTAAATGCTTTAAAAGGATTCCAGCAAGGTAAGATGACAACACCAATAATGCAACATAGGGGCGGATAAAATCTAAACAGAAAAGTTACACAAAATTATGATGCTTCGCTGTGATGGTTTCATGGAGAAATTTAGAAACAGGTCAAGCTTCACAGCATCCCTCCACATCCCTTAACACACACGTGCAAATTTGAGAGAGTTCCAGCTTTCCTCATCAATTACCTTTAAAATTACTAAGTACACTCAAGAATATAAAAATTAAAAACAAatatatatgtatatatgtaaatgtatatatgtgtgtatatatgtatatatgcatacgtatatgcgtgtgtgtgtatatatatatatatatatattttttttttttttgagacggagcctcgctctttcgcccagactggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactacaacctccgcctcctgggttcaatcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactccaggcacacgtcaccacgcccggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacaaggtttcgccgtgttggtcaggctggtctcgaacgcctgaccttgtgatctgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcttaagccactgcgcctgcccACAAAAAATGTTTCATGCCAAAAGACCACCTGGTGTGACGGATGCCACCCAGAACATGGGAAGAGGAGGCTGGAGGTAGATCTGGCCCTGGGAATCACCCGAAACCACTGCTACAGGCCCTCCTGCCTCCTGCTACCCACGCTCTGGGATGCTCTGGGCCCGCTGCTCTCTGTGCCTTCCATACCCAGGCAGGAGCCGCCACCCTCCCTGGTAGTAAGGCACCACATTTCCATACCCAGGCAGGAGCCGCCACCCTCCCTGGTAGTAAGGCACCACATGGCACCTGCTGGTGACAACCACTATGGGGAAACAGCAAACAGCAGCCCCAGGAGAGCTCTGCATAGCACGTGCCCCACCCCGCCAAGACTTCTGTGTTGTTAAAAGTAAGTTCTGATGGTTTTGCTTAAGCAGCACAGGTCAGTACACCACGTAAAATAATTATAGCCATTTTGAAAGGCAAATCGCCTTTTTCTCCAACCAcagagctcctcaactcacgacaaggctgtgtcctgataaacctctcatagctgggaatacgaggtagaaggtggattCCAACCCACGAAGGGTTAAACCCTCTCACAGCTGGGAATATGAGGTAGGTGGATTCCAACCCACGAAGGGTTAAACCCTCTCATAGCTGGGAATATGAGGTAGAAGGCGGATGCCAACCCACGAAGGGTTAAACCCTCTCATAGCTGGGAATATGAGGTAGAAGGTGGATTCCAACCCACGAAGGGTTAAACCCTCTCATAGCTGGGAATATGAGGTGGAAAGTGGATTCCAACCTCAAAGTGTTATCCAGACACAGCCTTGCCCTTCGTTGACGGGCACCCTGAATGCTTCAGGCTGGttgtaaagttgaaaaggcctaagtggagccatcctaagttagagaccagctgTATTCTGAAAGACAGAGGCTGGAATTAGTAAAATGGCTGGAAACACACATCTGTGAGCCCTGGATGATAAGCCAGGAATGAGCCAATGAAAGCCCAATTCCAAGTGAGCTGGACATGAAGACGGAGGTGGCCGCACAGACCCAAAGATGCACGACCTTCTGAGAAGCACAGAGAGCCCCGTCTTGTGGCCAGGGAAACCCAGGCAGCGCATGCCGCAGGCGTGAGGCTGGGTGCTTCTCCCAGGCCTGGCTCAGGGCAGGGTGGCTGCAAACAGTGGTGCACACCCCAGGCTCCAGGAGGAGGTGACCGAGGGGCAGCTGGGGAACATGGCGCACACCCCAGGCTCCAGGGATGGCCCTGCTGGTAGTGCGGTCTAACGGGAGGCAATAACTCATGACTGAGTATGTCTCCCCTCAACCCATCACCCTGTACCTGCCCGCAGTGGAGTGTGCACCTGTGCTCAGGTATGGGGACAGATGTGCTCCTACGGCTGTGTTTCCTCTGCACAGGTGTGGGAGGCCTGTGCAGGAGCTGAGTTAGCATGGCAGGTGCTGGTGCTGACCTGTGCCTCACCTGGGCACAGAGGCAGAATCCCCTGGGCTGCACATCCTCCTCTCCAAAGCAAGTGGGACCTGGCTGTCCGCGAGGCAAAGAGTCCATGCAGACTCGGGTGTGCGTCTGCCCCTCAATACCCCATCCATGTGTCTCCAGCCACCTGAGTCCCACAGAGCCACTGAGGATGGTGGGTGAATCCTACACACAGAATCGCTGGCTCCCGGGGACCCTCTTCATTTTCTGGAGCTGTGGGCGGTGGACGGATGAGTGCATCCTTTAGAGCCCAGACACTGGCAGACACAAAAGCCTGGCAAGAAGCAACACAGGCAGAAAAGGCCTCTGAGGATGGCGGGCAGTGGCCTGGGGGAAGAGGTGAGCCATGGCCTGCAGCTGCGTCCCAGCTCTGGTCTGCAGTCATGTCCAGGGAAGGGGCTCTGGCACCAGATGGCAGGGAGCGGTCACCTGGCAGAGGCCATGGATGCCAATGCCACTTGCTTCCCAAAACTGAGagccaagcgtggctcaggcctgaaatcccagcacttgggagactgaggtaggagagctgcttaagcccaggagttcgagaccagcctaggcaagaggtcaagaccctgtcttgaaagaaagaaagaaaaaagaaaagaaAAGGAAAGAggccgggcgcggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaacgcaggcatatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccctcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggtgcggtggcgggcacctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccaggaggcagagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaagaaaaaaaGCCAAAATAAGATTAAAAAAAACAAAACAAAACAggcggggcacggtggctcaaaactgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggtggatcacaaggtcaagagatcaagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccctgtctctaccaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaagcgtggtggcaggtgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggagtctgaggcaggagaattatgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagatgagatcacaccactgactccagcctgggcaacagagtgagactccaccacacacacacacacacacacacacaccaacaaaacaaaaCACTGAGGGGTGTGACTTGGGTTCTCACCTGCGTCTCTCTAGGAGCATAAGCACAGGTCTTCACCACTGTGGGTGCAAAGGGAAAAGGTGTCAACTGCGACAGGGGATGGAATACGGCACAGAATGAGCAACCCACCCTGGAGACACCAGCCTGTGGGAGCCCCAAAGCCCACAGGAGAGCCCCATAGTCCATGGGGAGACCTGTCCATGGGAAGCCCCGTAGCCCACAGGAAACCCTGCAGACCATGGGGAGCCCAGTGCAGGAGAGCCCTGCAGCCCACAAGAGTCACATCTGAAATACCCGGGACCGTCCGCACTGACCAGCAGCCTCCATGAGGGGCAGATCTGGGGCCAAGTGTCAGTGAGCCGCCTTACGGGTCTTTACGGGTCTTCCGGGCCACATTACGGGTCGGCACTGGGCACGAGGCCACCTGCTCAAGGACGCCGATGCCATGGCATGGGGGCTACATTTGCTCTACAGGTCTCCTGCCGGATCCTTTCTGAGCCCTCCTGGGAGGAGGCTGGGGGCCGGAATGCGGGTGCATAGAAACGGCTGGAAGCAGCGCAGGGCAGAAGCGATATGGAAAGGCGGGTCAGGCACAGGCCTCACAGGCCCGCGGTCCTCCGGGGAGGTTTGCAAGGATCACATGGCCAAGGGCACCATGAGCAGCTTCCCAACCAACCCGCCCAGTGTCCCGCAGAGTTTGTGGAGATAAACAGAAGCTTGACAAACACAACTGAGCAGAAAACGCCCGCAGGTGGTCAGTAGGCGCTTCCAGTGTTATCACAAGACCACACGCCGCACGTCAGCACATGACACAGACACACTTACTTGATCCCTGTTTTGACAAGCTAAGTCGTACTTTATACCAGGAGGAGGAGGGGCACCCCAGGTGAGCGGTCCAATCCTCAGACACGGCCAGTGCCATCAGCGACCTGCATCCCGACCCCCCGGAACAGCACAGCCAGCAGACAGAACCCGCCCTGCAGAGGCAGCTTCCGGCAGCCGCAGGCCCTTCCCAGGCCCAGCCCCCGAGTCCCGCGCAGGGAAAGGCTCTGCCCAAGCCTTCAGGGAGGCAGCAGCGCCCGGTGCACAGTTCCTAAGGGCGCAGAACTCCGGGATGAACAAAGGCAAGGAAACGGCTGTGTAAAAATCAGCTCTACTGACGCACGGCTGGGTGCTCAGCGGACCCGCACAGAACCACAGTCCTACCTGGCACGTTCTGACGCGCACCAGATCACAGCCTCAGCCCCGCGGGCGCGCCCCAGGAAACCATGGCCTCAGCCCCGCGGGCGGCCCCGCACCCCAGGAAACCATCGCCTCAGCCCCGCGGGCGGCCCCGCACCCCAGGAAACCATCGCCTCAGCCCACATATTCAACCCGGAAGCCTGGGGAGGCTTCCCTTGGGGAAATCCACCTGTCGCTCGAGGTCAGTCGGCCTTTTCTAGAATTCTGTATAAACGCAGTCTCATGGGGAGCTAGTGCCCCCCGCTGCTCCGGCGCCCCCTCCGCTCTGGCTTTCTTCACTGGCACAGGATCCTGAGATGCACCCCTGCCTCCATGGTTATCAGCGACTCATCCCTTTTATGCCGTGGCATGCCAGGATGCACCACGGTGTTTTTCTCCAACTGCTTGGCAGTGCCACTGGAGTTGGGGCAGCGCTTCCCAGCGGGCAGAGTTGACCCCGAGGCCAACAGCCAGGCCACAGCCAGCGCCCTCCCCACGTCTCGCCTCCCCCAGTCCAGACACAAACCTGGTCAAGGGCGCCCAGACCAGGGCTCAACCCACTGCCCGCAGGGGCCGACTGCCAAGGAGCGGTCACCGCCCCAGAGTGATGGCTGCCACAGCGTCGTGTGTACAACTTATGGTCTGTCCCACGTGGCTGCAGGCTCCAGCCCTGAGAAGAAGAGAGGAGAGCCATTCCCCAACACGGCACCTTGCTCTGTGTTAGCTCCATCTTCTCTCATGACGGGGCCTTCGGAAACACCAAGAAACGACCAAAGCAGACAGGCACTGGGAGAAGCAGGACAAGCATTTCCTCACCTCACATGAACTTCCATATGAATGTGACAAAGGCACAGCACACAAAATGCAGATGCTGACCACAGAGAGGGCCCCACTCACTCACGCTGGCCACGAAAAGGCCCGCCCTGGTTCACACCGGCATGGAGAGGTCTCGCTTCTGTTTTAGCAATACTGACAACTGGCCCCCATTCATGCAGATGCTGTCACTTATATACTATATATATAACAAGggccaggcgtggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggagactgaggtgggcggatcatgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctggctaaaatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcatggcgacaggcgcccataatcccagctactcgggaggctgagtcaggagaatctcttgaactggggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccacaatcacaccactgcactccagcctgggcaacaagagcaaaactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaatatatatatatatatatatataCACACCTATAGATAAATAACCTACCTTTGCACCCAAAGGTCACAAAGTTTATACTAAAAAATGTGATTGAGagccggacacggtggttcacacctgtaatcccagcaccatgggaggccaaggcgggcggatcatgagatcaagagattgagaccatccttgccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcacgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaagcaggagaatcacttgaacctgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagcgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctggtgacagagtgggatcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTGATCAAAATCAGGCCACCGTCAGCTATGAAAATCTCTATTTTACTTCCTCCATAAAATCAGGGATGTGGCCTCTGCCTGAAGCGTCAGCCAAGATTGCCAGCACTggccgggtgtggtggctcacacctgtaatcccaacagtttgggaggccgaggcggggggatcacgaggtcaggagatggagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatataaaaaaaattagccgggtgcggtggcgggtgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggagcctgaggcagaagactggcatgaacctgggaggtggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgcaccattgcactccaacctgggcgacagagcgaggctccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaagaTTGCCAGCACCCCCATCAGGTCCCAGAATACTCCACCTACGTATCTCGTGGGTGTTCTGCATGGCGGCAGACACTTGGTGTCACCCTCAGGGGCAGGAACAGGTGATGGGCTGACCAGACAGCATTGAATGACCATGGGGCAGGGCACTCTCACCCCTTCTGCTCACACTGAATGAGCAGGTGATTTCTCGGTCACTCAGGGTGGCAGACACAAAAGGGCAAGAGAATGAGTCACCAGGCACCAGGCAGGAGCTTCCGGCTCAGCCCTGCGGCCTGTGCCTAGGAGGCCTCGCTGTGGTTCCACGCTGCGGCCAGCCTTTTCTTTGTTTTATAACACCGCTGGTGCCCCCACCCACTCACTGTGAACCGCACAACACACCAAAGGCCCTTTATGATCAAAATCAAACAGTGACGATAGGGAGGGTGTGTGTTTCTGCAGACTGTCCACAGGCGCAGCACAGGCGGGGCAGCCCTGGCAGCCACCCACACCTGCCATCCCGGGAGTCCAACAGCTCAAACTGTGGCCAAATGCCCCTCACCAGCACTTACTGGCTACTGACCACAGGCAGTCTGCCAATTCCTAGCTTACAAAGCGGAAATGACAGTGGCCACTTCTTTATAAAGTTTCTGAGCATTTCAGCAAACAGTGCTTGGGTGAGGCCAGGCACATGATGCAGAAAGCCCTCACTACAGCCTAGCAACCAAAGTGTCCTGCACATTAGTTAGGGGACTGGGTGGGAAAGGCTGCAGGTCACAGTTAAACCCACAATTCCAACTAACTGTCTGTGAGACTCTAAACAAATGCTTCACCAggctggggacagtggctcaagcctgtaatccgagcactgtaggaggctgaggcagaatgccttaaagccaagagttcaagacccacctgagtgaaaaggccagaccttgtctctacaaaaaaatgttgcaaaaattagccaagggctgggcggggtagctcacacctgtaatcccagcattttgggaggctgaggtagatggatcacttgagtcctggagttcaagaccagcctggacaacaaggtgagacctcgtctctgcaaaatatttaaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcatgcacctgtggtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggaggatcgcctgagcccaggaggctgaggctgcagtgagccatgatcatgccactgcatttcagcctgagtaacacagcaagactctgtcactaaaaaaaataataataaTACagccaggtgcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaatactttgggaggccgcggcgggcggatcacctgaggttgggagttcgcaaccagcctgaccaacatggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccaggcgtggtggcacatgtctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaagcgggagaatcacctgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagaccacaccattgctctccagcctgggcaacaagagcgaaactccatgtcaaaaaaaataataataaaTTAAATACTTAACAAGAACAGCATATTCACAGGAACCCAAACACTCATGATTTTGAAAGGCACATGGCAACGGGTGCTACAGACAGGAGAGATGGCAGGCAGGGAGAGTGTGGCCGGGCACCCTGTCCTCTCTGCACAGTCCCCCACAGACTGAAGCTGCTGCTCCGCTTTCCAGGAGAGATGGCGGGCAGGGAGGGTCTGCCAGGCACCCTGTCCTCTCTGCACAACCCCTGGGTGCTGCCACGCTGCTCACACCAGTAACTATTTAAAATGATAGTGggctgggcacggtagctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttggaaggccaaggcaggagggaggatcacgacgtcaggagttcgagaccagcctgaccgacatggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatatagaaattagccaggcgtggtggtgtgcacctgtaatcccatctactcaagagctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgacatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactgtcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaTACTGAAAAACATACAGAGTGGGTAACATGAATTAGGATCCCATTTTTGATGAAAAAAATGTGCTAAGAAAAATCTAGAGCGATCTAGATAGAATAGTAGTATCTCTGAGCAGTGGGATATCAGACCATTTCTTTGttctgtgttttctttcttttcttttttttggatatggcatctttctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcgtgatcttggctcaatgcatcctccgcctcccgggctcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagatgggattacaggcgcacaacaccatgcccggctaatttttgtttttttttgtttttgagacggagtctcgctatgtcgcccaggctagagtgctggagtgcagtggcgcagtcttggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccaggttcacgccattctcctgcttcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgccagccaccttgcccggctattttttttttttttttgtattttttagtagacacggggtttcactgtattagccaggatggtctcaatctcctgatcttgtgatccacccgcctcagcctcccagagtgctgggataacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcctggccaatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggtcaggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcgtgatcctcccgcctcgaccttccaaagtactgggattacaggcatgacccactgtgcccggccCttttttttttttgagagagggtctctctctgtcaaccaggctggagagcagtggcacattcacagctcactgcagcctcaacctcccggtctcaggtgacccacccatctcagcctccctagtggctggaaccacaggtgcatgccaccacactcatctcaatttttctatttttttctagagatgggggtctccctatgttgcccaggttggtctcaaaatcctgggctcaagcaatccacccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagatgtgagccactgtgcccgCTACCAAACGTCTTTCATATAGAACTCTGACAACAATCTGTCTTTGCATTGACTGAAAACTATGCAATAATGTACATGAAGAACACTTTGAAAATTATAATGCACCAAAGAACTCACTAATGAGACTCACTAGTTAGTGCTCAGCACAATCAGTTATGAAACTGACGACCTCTTTCCTCTGCTCAGCGTGAACACCGTGCATTGAATTCAGTTTTGTGCTGCTCACTGCCACATTTCTTCAATGTCACAAAAGTCTCTTCAGAGCCTGGAACTGCACAAATGGCTTCACATCACATTTTTAGGTTCACAAGGATCTGATGAGAAACACTTTATGTAATGAAGAGTGGTAACATTTAAAAAGTAGAACAAAAAAATGTTTTATGCTTTCCTCCCCAGGAGACACTAGCACCCTCACTCCAGCCTTCACCCCTGGAGCAGAAGCCCCCAGGAATTTACTGGTTCCAAAGAACAGCCAATGACCTTTCACAAGCTCAGATTATCTATGCTGCAACAAACATTTGGAAGTGGCAATTCCCAGCAAATTGCAGGCAATTTAGAGTCATTTGCCAAGATGCAATCTGCCCTATTGCTCCAGGGTCTTTACAAAGGCCAGCCAGACTGCAGCCCTTGCAGACTGCAGGGTGGCAAGTCTCACGCCAGCCTCAGAGCCTCCTCAGCAGAAGTCTGAATACATCACTTACCCAGAACCAGGTTGCCGGCTTACAGTCATGGTCCCTGAATCCTGCATAAAACTCACCTGAAGGAGACCAGCTCTCAGTGCTGAAGCTACAAGACGAAAATAACAACTTCTGAAAGCCACGTCTTATTAAAAATTAAAACACTGGACACTTATCAATCTAGTTAAGGTAAAAATTCTGTACATGAAAAAAAAAATTCTGTACATGAAGCACTCTGGTTTGTTCCCTTGAAGTAATTTAGAAACTGCAAGTTCCAAGCTGGGTCTACCCTCTTTATGACATTCTCAGGGATCCTGGAGCCCTTCCCTGGGCTGACAGCTCATGGACGTCCCTAACACTCCAAAGCAGCTGTGTCCAGTTTCCTTGACTCTGAGTGTGCAGCAGGAAGAAGCCTCTGTCTGGAAAGAAACACTCTGAGGCAGAAATAGAAAATCTTTATTTTTATGAGATATTTAATTTTTTTCTGCTTCTTTTAAAAGGAGTTTCACTTTACCCAAATGAAAGAAACGCAACCAACTCATGAGAATCTATCAAACACTCCTATCAGCGTATAGAATGCACAGCAGTAAGCGGACGCATAACAAAGCCAAAACAAAAACTGCCTGGACTGCTTTTATTTGCAAACTTTTTTGTTCACCATGGAAATGCTTTATCTTTGTGGTATCTCCAACATAACTCCACACTGCACCACGAAGCTATAAATTCCAAAGCTAATGGAATTTCCAAGCAAAGGTGCAAGCCTGACACTGCATGAGGGGCCCTCACGCCAGTGCCTCTACTTACGTCACCCTCAGATCTCCACACAGGCGCACCTCGGCCACTAGTCTGACCCCCAGCCTCGCTGAGCCCCTGCTCAAAAGCGCTGTTTCcaggcctgtgggttccagagaccacggtgactaagggcccgaccctgactacagcagatgggaagttacttaatctcccagggcctcagtttccacatggatggcatgaCACTCCCACACCTCGTTAGGGGCTCGCGGATGGCCTGACGCCTGACACAGGCAGTGCGAGAGTCCACAGGTCGGCAGCCTTCAGCAGCGACAATGGTCCCTGACAGTCCTCTGTTCACAGCTCCTGCAGATGGTGGTGGACCAGCAACAACTGAGGGCCCCACGGTCCAAGGACAGTTTAGAGAACTCGCAGCAGCAACATCACAATCACAAGTAAAGCATATTTAACTTTTAGAAACAGGATATAAAACCTGCAGCCAggctgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggcggatcacgagatcaggagatggagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctctagggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggtggaggttgcagtgagctgagaccgtgccactgcactccaggctgggcgaaagagcgagactccttctcaaaaaaaaaaagaaaacaaaaaaaaaaTTACACTTAACATCTTAACATCTCCAGAAAGATTTTGATCTAAACAATGTTGATCTaaaccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagtataattttttgagtgtatattcagaaagcaagggcaggaaaaaaatgtattgaaaagatatgaaaacacaacaaaaagaaatgcaaaatatatgaaagatttaaaatttaaaggatcactctaaatggtccaaaatctaaataagatctcaaataagttctaaaatgagaaatggtaaagatggagagaaggaattatcaaagaaataaCATTTCTGGCCAGATGCAATCAAtggctcacacctgcaatttcaactctctgagaggccaaagtaggaggagtgctcaaggcctggagcttgagaccagcctgggcaacactgggagaccttgtctctacaaaaaactgtaaaaaaatattagcgaggtgggccgggtgcaattgctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttggaggccgaggcaggcggatcacctgaggtcgggagtttgagaccagcctgaccaacatggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcgcatgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacccgggaggcagcggatgcagtgagccgagatcgcaccactgcaccccagcccgggcaacaagagcgaaattccatctcgaaaaaaaaaaattagtggggtgtgctggtgcctatagtcccagctactctggaggctgaggcaggaggatcgctcaagccTTTTTTTCCAGACTCGCCTCagaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaagaaaCAAATACCATTTAAACtccagaattaaaggacaagtttcttcagcacgatgaaagaaaaaagcccccagcaaaacacagtattatgaaataacactgttgataaagaaaacatccaaaaaatgtctggagggaagaaaaaaagcaccatccacaccgtatgaagagaatggagccaggtctttccagggcagctcagaaaaacagaaggtgatggtgcaaattcctctaaatttatggggggggtgccacccaacctaaattctaaacccaactcatctctccttcaagtTCTTTTGGCATGAGCgcataacaccagtaccacagcacaacagtaacacagcacgaggtaccacagcatgccaataacacagcacccagtaccacagcacacccagtaccatggcacccaataccacagcacaccagtaacacagcaccaggtaccatagcatgcccataacacagcacccagtaccataccatgccaataacacagcacccagtaccacagcacagcaataacacagcatgcagtaccatggcatccaataacacagcacgcagtaccacagcacccagtaccatagcatgcccataacacagcacccagtaccaaggcacaccactaacacagcatccagtaccacggcatgccaataacacagcacccagtaccacggcatgccaataacacagcacccagtaccatggcacaccaATAACAGCACCCAGTACCATGGCATGCCAATAACACAGCACCCAGTACCATGGCACGCTAATTAcacagcacccagtaccacagtacaccaataacacagcacccagtaccacagcatgccaataacccagcacccagtaccatggcacgctaattacacagcacccagtaccacaacacaccaataacacagcacccagtaccacagcatgccaATAACCCAGCACCCAGTACCATGGCATGCTAATTACACAGCACCCAATACCACGGCATGCCAATAATGCAGCACCCAGTACCACGGCAAGCTAATTAcacagcacccagtaccacaacacaccaataacacagcacccagtaccacagcatgccaataacacagcacccagtaccatggcacactaattacacagcacccagtaccatggcacactgataacacagcacccagtagcacagcacgccaATAATGCAGCACCCAGTACCATGGCATGCTAATTAcacagcacccaataccacagcacaccaataacatagcacccagtaccacagcatgccaataacacagcacctagtaccacaacacactaatatcacagcacccagtgccacagcatgccaataacacagcacccagcaccatggcatgccaAAAGCAAACCATCCAGTACCATGACACGCTAATTACACAGCACCCAGTACCATGGCACACTAATTACACACCACTCACTAGAGAGAAACACTCTGAGGCAGAAATAGAAAATCTTTATTTTTATGAGATATTTAATTTTTTTCTGCTTCTTTTAAAAGGAGTTTCACTTTACCCAAATGAACCAAACGCAACCAACTCATGAGAATCTACAAAACACTCCCATTGGCGTATAGAATGCACAGCAGTAAGTGGACACATAACAAAGCCAAAATAAAAACGGCCTGGACTGCTTTTATTTGTAAACTTTTTTGTTCACCATGGAAATGCTTTATCTTTGTGGTATCTCCAACATAACTCCACACTGCACCACGAAGCTATAAATTCCAAAGCTAATGGAATTTCCAAGCAAAGGTGCAAGCCTGACACTGCATGAGGGGCCCTCACGCCAGTGCCTCTACTTACGTCACCCTCAGATCTCCACACAGGCACACCTCGGCCACTAGTCTGTACCAGGACACACTAATAAcacagcacacagtaccacagcatgccaataatgcagcacccagtatcatggcacgctaattacacagcacccagtaccacggcacactaattacacagcacccagtaccacagcacaccaataacatagcactcagtaccacagcacgccaataacacagcacccagtaccacggcacaccaataacatagcacccagtaccactgcatgccaataacacagcacCCAGTACCATGGCACCCAATAACACAACACCCAGTACCATGGCACCCAATAACAGCACCCAGTACCACTGCGCCCAGTTACACAGCATGCCAGTACCACACACACCAGCTCCAAGGCACCCAGTACCACAGGATgcctaaagagtaactgtttcaaccagagtgggaatatggaagacttcaggacacatgtcttccagagaaaaaatactttatccaagaggttttacagtgaggagaagaatattcacaagcactctattgagctgaagaatatgggaagatttaagttggaaagtaaaatatttaatcaaatgaaaaaaacggccattattaactcaaaaacaaacacacaaaattgtacaggaaagaaaatggccaggcgtggtggctcacgcctataatcctagcactttgggaggccaaggcagggggatcacttgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggtaaaacctggtctctgctaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtggtgatgcacgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggccgaggcagaagaatttcttgaacccaggaggcggaggttgcagtaagccaagatggtgccattgcactccagcctgggatacaagagcaaaactccgtctcaaaaaagaaaatgattgacccacttggctcagaagtgaaAGCACCATGCCCTGGTGCATGAACACCTCAGGGTAGGGGTGAGACAGGAGAGCAGCAGAGCTCTCAAAGAGCCAGTGGACACAAGATAGCAGTGAGCACGTTACTCAGAAAAGGCACTAAGGACCGAACCGTGTCGCCCAATTAATATGTGTCAGCCCTGACCATCACGTGGCTGTGCTTGAAGTAAGGAAGTGTTATTGTTAGATGAGAACGCAAACGTGGGGCCCTGACCCAAGAGGGCTGGTTCCCTAAAAGAACAGACACCagctgggcgcggtgcctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaatgcgggcagatcacgaggtcagtccaagaccagtctggccaatatggtggaacctcatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcgcatgtctgtaatcccagctactcaggaagctgaggcaggagaatcatttgaacccaggaggcggaggttgcagtgagctgaggttgcaccactgcactccagtctgggcaacagagcaagactccgcctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaacaaaacataaaTACAAGAACTTAACCAGGTGTGggccaggcacagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttggaaggccgaggctggtggatcacaacgtcaggagatggagaccatgatggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaacacaaaaaaattagccgggcatggtggcaggcgcctgtaatcccagatactggggaggctgagggaggaggagctcttgagcctgggagggagaggttgcagtgagctgagatcacaccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcaagaccccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaCACATTTACGTGTATCCTTTTTAAAGAAAAAATGTGCTTTTGAATAGCTGCATATTTTAAAGCTTTTATTCTTTTAATAATATACtttctaattataaacatgctgttataggaatttggaaaatacagaaaaacaaagaaaaaaattaaaagcccacatatccaacTGTATGAATGCCACTGGGCATTCAAGTCATCCTATTTGCTGGAATATTACAAGCAGCACTCCTTAGGGTTATTTTAAATGTTTGTTTAGGAGCAGACACCAATCCCATAGACTACAGGTGAGCTAGTAAAGATCCAGAGTGGGTCAAAACCaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGCACTGGAGCAACCTCAAAGGAGGCAGGAGGGTGAGTGCCATGAGCAGGGCACAGGACCAAGCAGCCCACTGCAGCTCACAGTGAGGACAGCGCCTGCCAGGACACCCGGACGCCCAGCTACCCGGCCACCTGGCCACCTAGCCAGCTGAGCCAAGAGCTGAGCCCATTTGCCAGCAGATGCTTCAACGGATCACAAAGGAAGCCCGTGGGCCGAGGCTGCAATCCACACAAGCCAGCGTTCAACTCCGGACAGGGCCCAGGGTCCTTGCTGGAGGAGAAGGGGCATGGAATCTGGGCCCTATGGGCACTCAGCCGGGCGTGCGGCCTCTGGGGGCCCCCTGGACGCCACAGCAGTATGGCAGAGCTGTGTGTGTTTTCACAGAGCCCTGTGACCAGTCTCCATCTCTCAGGGAGTGGAGAGACCGAACACCTTCTGGAGCTAATGGGTTCTGAGAGAACCCTGAGTGGTTATTCTCACAGATGTGACACGGGGAAAAACTGAGGTGAAGCTGCTTCCCTCCACACGCACAAGTAGGCAGCGGAGGGGCCCAAGAAAGAGCCAACAGGCGGCCCTCTCTCCCTGACAGCCACCATAGCCCAGCCTGGCCCCCACCTCCGATAACTGCAGGGTACGCTGCTACAAATGACGTCTGCGTTTGACAAGGATGAGCAGAACCGGAGCGTGTGCGTCAATTCAAATCTGTGACACTGGCGCAAAATGTGAGAATGGGCTGGGGTGCCAGGCGGCCAGTCACGGCTAGGGCACAGTTCCAAGAAGGGCCACAGGGGCCCGCAGGGACACTTACCCCAAGCCCTCCAGAAACAGCTGCTGCAGGTCAGCACCAGCACCAGGGCCAGGCACACAGTCTCATCGGCACGTCTGCCACTGGCTGTCTGCAAAGTGCTTCCCTTTCACAACCCACCCACACAGCTCAGGACTGAGGTCCGCCCAGGCAAAGGGGCCTCTCGGTTCCAGAATCCTTTGGCCTGACAGGCAACTACAGATACTTTCGTGGACTCTGCTGAAACCTGTCTGAGACTATGGAGCTTTACGTGGCTAAGGAAGAGAAAAAATATGTTTGGAGTCCTTGCCCACTGACAGGTGCATAAAAATACAAGATGgactgggcacagtggctcacgcctataattccagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggcggaccacttaaggtcaagatttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggcgaaaccttgtctctactaaaaatacataaagtagccaggagtgggggcatgcacctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgagactagagaatcacttgaacctgagaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagatcgcgccattgcactccagcctgggtgacaagagcgaaactccatcttggggaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTGGGATGCAAGCTGGTGCTGTGGGGAcagagtccagcagagcaccagcagagtccagcagagtctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgtgcctggccAGGAATCATTTTTAAAGTTTTCCTTGGACATCCACAAACAAAAAAAATTTCCCTTTGggcagggtgtggtggttcacacctgcaacccctgcactttgggaggccgagacgggcagatcacttgaggtcaggagttcaaaaccagccagcctggtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggccgggcgtggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggtaggcggatcacaaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacaaggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtgacacgcgcctgtagtcccagctgctgaggaggctgaggcaggagaagtgcttgaacccaggaggtggagcttgcagtgagccaagattgtgccactgcactccagccttggcgatagagcgagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccaggcatggcggcaggtgcctataatcccagctactggggaggttggggcaggagaactgcttcaacctgggaggcggaggctgcagtaagccgagatggtgccactgcactccaacctgtgtgacagagcaagactgtctaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTTCTCTTCAGATCTGCTCAAACAGGGGAAGCAAATACCCCAAAGGAGACTAGAAACCCCCCACACCCAGGCAAGGGGAGCCCACGCAAGGGGCAGTATGGCTCACAAGCACCTCTGCCCCCTCTGCACCACAGCAGAGGTCCCCTTAACAAGACAAGCCTGGGGGCGACCCCACCCTGGGCCACACCCTTTGCACAGGAAGCAGAGTTCACCCTTGCAACACAGCCCCTCTGCAGCCGGGCACCTTCAACAGCACCACCGCCTGAGGTCCAACGGACATGGAAACCCAAAACCACTCCTCCACAGACAACTCTGTACACATTTTGGGCCCTttctttttcttcttcttcttcttctttttttttttAACCATTTCTTCTCTTAACCTTTTAGGCCATTACCAGAAACACAGTCAATAAACTAATGAGCAGGTCCGACGGTTCCTCACGCACCCCTGCGGGAACCTGAACGGCAAGGGCTGGCTGCCCACCTCGAAAGGACCCACCGGTCCTCTGAGCAGCTCCAGGAACCAGCAGCCCAAGACAAGCCACCATGTTGCTCCTGCTGTGGACATGTCTGTTGTCCACTCTCTGGCCACAGCCACATTGACCAGCCCTATCCACAAGTGCATCACTGGACTGGCCCGGGAAGACACACGAAAATATCCAGGAAGACCCTGTCCCCAGTCATCAAGGAAGGTCAGGGCAGTCAACAGAAGGGGCCAGCGGCGAGGAGACTGCGGGCTTGACCAAGCGGACCTGGCAGGGGCATGCAAGGCCAGCCCTGAAGGCCACCTGGTGGGCCAAGCCACCCTGAAGGGAAGCAGAGCCTGAGCCCGCCAGCCAGGGAGTGCAGGCCCTGGGCCTCCCGCCCAACACTCAGTCAACAGCAGAACCTGCCTGCTGATCCACACCGCTGAAATGACGAGGTGAACCAGCCAGCTCTGTTCAAAGTTCCACTGACAATGGGAACAAAGACCCGAGGGTGCAGAAAGTGTTCCCACAGAGGCAGAGCGGGGGAGCCAGGGAGGAACCCCATGAAACCTTGGCCCAGGAGCTCAAAATGACAGTGGGTGAGTGGGACAAACACAGAAAAGGGCCAGGAATGGAGCTCTTTCCTAGGCTGAGACAAAGACCTAAGCAGAACACTTCACTTTCCTCAAATCAAGTATGTGAAACCACCACGCGGCTCACACACGGACCAACAAGGACCCGCACTCAGGCGTCCCACAGGGGAACTGGATGCCTGTGGCCGTGCTGGACCGCAGCAGCCCCACCGCAGGGGATGAGCGACTGTGGCAGAGATGCAGGCAAAGTAGCCTCCAGGACAGAGGGGTCAGCACCCGAGGGCTGGCCCTCCTGGCACGTTCCTCCACGCAAATTCCACCCCGgtgagaggtgacagcgtgctggcagtcctcacagccctcgctcgctctcagcgcctcctctgcctgggctctcactttggtggcacttgaggagcccttcagcccaccactgcactgtgggagcccctttctgggctggccaaggccggagccggctccctcagcttgcggggaggtgtggagggagaggcgcgagcgggaaccgcggctgcatgcgcttgcaggccagctggagtcccgggtgggcgtgggcttggtgggcccggcactcagagcagccggccagccctgccggccgcgggcaatgaggggcttagcacccgggccagcggctgcggagggtgtgctgggtcccccggcagtgccggcccaccggagctgcgctcaatttctcgctgggtcttaactgccttcctgcagggcagggctcgggagctgcagcccgccatgcctaagccccccaccccctccgtgggctcctgtgcggaccgagtctccccgacgagcgcccggtcccattgaccacccaagggctgaggagtgcgggcgcacggcacgggactggcaggcagctccacctgcaaccccggtgcgggatccactgggtgaagccagctgggctcctgattctggtggggacgtggagaacctttatgtctagctcagggactgtaaatacaccaatcggcactctgtatctagcacaaggtttgtaaacacaccaatcagcactctgtgtctagctcagggtttgtgaatgcaccaatcgacactctgtatctagctactctggtggggacttggagaacctttgtgtggacactctgtatctagctaatctggtgaggatgtggagaagctttgtgtctagctcagggattgtaaacgcaccaatcagcgccctgtcaaaacagaccactggactctaccaatcagcaggatgtgggtggggccagataagagaataaaagctggctgcgggagccagcagtggtaactcgctcgggtccccttccatagtgtggaagctttgttctttctctctttccagtaagtcttgctgctgctcactctttgggtccacactgcctttatgagctgtaacactcaccgcgaagatctgcagcttcactcctgaagccagtgagaccacgaacccaccagaaggaagaaactccgaacacctccgaacgtcagaaggaacaaactccggacaggccgcctttaggaactgtaacactcacggcaagggtccgcggcttcattcttgaagtcagtgagaccaagaacccaccaattccggacacaCCGGGACGACTAACCGGCTCTCCACAGGATATGCATCCCCTAACACGTGAGGCCTAAGCTCCAGGCCCTGCTGTGGTAGCAATGCTCACCAGCCGCCTGTTCAGTACCCACTCTCCTTTTCCCTTTGCATTACCCGCAGCCTTCCTTTGGAGGACTGCCCCCAGCTCCCCACTGGGGAGCAGCCGTCTGTCTGGGTGGAGAACCCACTTTCCTTCAGGAGTGACCCTGCTGCACAGCCCCCAGCGCACGCACCGTGACTGTGCTGAGACAGACGGGACACAGCGGCACACGTGCCCTCCTCAGAGCAACAGCGGGCCCATCCGTCAGAGCTGCGGGAAGCATCTGTAAACAAGGGAGCCCAGAGCCCAAGGTCACTGCAGCAGCCACCTCCAACACAAAGCCCACGAAGTCGCCCACCAGGCAGGCAAAGTCAGAATGGCACAAAGCAAAGGTGCCAGGCCCTAAGGCACACCTGAGGCTCTGCCTCAACAGTGCCCTTCAGGGTTGGGCTCAGGTGGGTGGGTTTCCACGACTTCCAACCTAGTGCACCCTCACCTACACCTGGCAGGACAAAGAGAATGGTCTAAATGTGAGGAACGCAGCCTGGACTTCATGCCCTGTCTGTGCTGACAAGCAACCATTCCAACATCAGAGATCTTCAAGCCACAAGGCTGCACCACAGGCCACCTCCCACAGAGAGGATTCAACCGCAGACACGACTCCCAAGCCCCAGGGTCCTCTGCCACCAGCAGCCCCAGAGCAGTCAAGTTAGGACCCAAACTGTGTAGACAGAGCTACACAAAATTAGACAGGAGAAGCCAATGTATCCCACTAATTTCATAGCAAAGGTTCCTTATTACAAATACAGCAAACCAAGGACAGACAGCAAAGCTACTGCTCGCAGCCAAGAACTGAAGAGTGGCTGGGAGGGAGGCACTGGGGTTCCAACAGTGGAAATCAGAACGGAGCTCATTTTCCTCCTGCAGCCCAGCCCTCAACTTCAGTCCCATCTTAAAAATAACCAGCCGGggccgggcgcagtggctcacacctggaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcgggcagatctcttgaggaaaggagttcgagaccagactggccaacgtggtaaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacagaaaattagctgggcatggtagctcacacttgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagactcacttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagattgcactactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccatctcaaacaaaaaaacaagcaaaaaaaataaCCagccaggtgcagtggctcccacccgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgagatcactggagtccaggagctcgagaccatcctggccaacgtggcgaaacgctgtctctaccacaaatacaaaaattagccaggcatggtagcacacacctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggcaggagaatcacttaaacccaggaggcagaagttgcagtgagccgagatagcgagatagtgctactgcactccagcctgtgtgacagagcgagactccatttcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaagaaagaaagaaaCTCTCAGTTTATACCAGGCTTACTCAACAGGATAACTTTGCGGCATATTGTGTCCTAAAATGCTTGCTAAATAAATACCACTTGGCTAAAGACAATGAACAAAAGGGAAAAAAggccgggcgtggtggcccacgtctgtaatccccgcactttgggagactgaggcaggcgatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacatggtgaaacccagtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattggccggcatggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggctggggcaggagaacggcgtgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatggcgccaccgcactccagcctgggcgatagagcaagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTTAACCAATTAACCTACACAATCCttttttgttttttttttgttttttttctgagacagagtttcactcttgtcctcttgtcgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcacaaccaaggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcttcagcctcccgaggagctgggattacaggcatgcgccaactcgcctatctaatttttgtatttttagtagaaatgaggattcaccacgttggccaggatggtctcgaactcccgacctcaggtgattcgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagtcactgcgcccagtcGACAGTCCATCTTAAATCGTATCACTTAGACTACAAGTTTAACCTTAGACATGTTTAATCCTGTGTTGATGAGCGAGTAGCCAATTTCTGTGTCACAGTAAGCTTGAAGAACTAATGCGAGTTTTTAATAACTCCTCAGGAGAGTCCCAGCACATGGGGCTGTGCTTTCGGAGTCTTGATTAGGTCAGCAGGGGTCACATGAATTCCAGGCTTTCAAAGTTACACAGGCCGGAGCCTCCGGTCACCAGCTCTAGGGAAAGAGTGGGAAATGCATGCGCTCTGCTCACAAGCACAGTAGATGCCAGCCCGAAAGCCAAATAAACCTCCAGGAACCACGCAGGGATCACAGGGAAGGAAGAACGAAGAAACAGGTTCCAAGGCTGAGCACCACTCTGCTCCCTCCCAGGCAACACACGCACCCCACAGGCCCTGCCAGGATCGCCTCAGGGTCCAGGCTGCTGTGGACTACACAACAGCACCAACAGATTTTGTTGGCAGGAAAAAAGGCCCAATCCTGGAATGCCCACTATAGCCACAGGAAGTTTTCAAAGTACTCTGACCATTCCCCACACGTAAAACGTCCCCCCTGCTATTTCTCAGCCTGTAGGAAGAAGCTTAGAAGATCATTATAAAAGCAATAATCTggccggatgcggcggctcacgcctgtaatcccaacactttgggaggccgaggcaggcagatcacctgaggtcgggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggagaaaccccacctctactaataatgcaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcacatgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgctcaaacccgggaggcgaaggttgcagtgagctgagattgtaccattgcactccagcctgagcaacaaaagtgaaactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagcaagaaTCCAATTCTCCAATTCTTATCGATGCCCTGAAACGTCCACTCCTCCCTTTATTAAGCGGAAAGGACCATGTCTACTGGGTAGATCCAGCTCCTATTTAAGAGGTGACAGACTTTACTGCTGAAGGGTAAAGTTTACATGTCATTGTGACTTCTAAGAATTCCGATGTTCCTAATGACTCATAAAGTCATATATTTTAGTCTGTTCTCAGTAAAAGTGTTCTCAACATTACAAATATAAAAAAGTAATGACAAATGCAAAAGTATCACAAATAAGAACAGAACCAAAATTCAACCCCAGCGGCAGCAGGACATCCGGTGTGGGTTAACGCCCGCCTCATCAGCACCTTTCCCTGGCTTGTTCTCCAGCTCTCGGAGGTGAGTACAGAAAGTGGACGCCTGGCGTCGGACTCACCTGAACTCTCTGCCTTCGCTGTACCGTCTACTGGAGGAGACCCTCGGGGCAGCTGTCTCCAGGAGCAGCTTCTGAGGGAGTCTTCCGGGGGGAGCAGCGTCTCTGCCATCGTCCTCATCCATGTCCTGGTCACACTTCCATTCCTCATCTTCATTTAAGGTCGGCAGGTATCCAGATATGCCCTTCCCTGTCCCTGACCCAGAGCTCTGGTCACTACAGACTTTGGGGCTCTCCGAGCCTGTCCTCGTATATTCCAAATAAATATCAGACTTAAGGAAGGAGGGATAGGTGTTTTCCTCCATAGTGGCCTGGATTTCGGTCTGGGCCTGGTCAAACATGGCAGGATCGATCAGCTGCTTCATGATGCAGCCCTTTATGAAGCTCTTGGTGGCTGGCTTGGTCTGCCGGGACACGATGCCATTGTTATCAAGAATGTACTTTCGGTAGATGGCTCTCGCCAGCTTCAGCCTCTTCTCCTCGTTCGAGTCACAGGGCTCCAGCTTCCTGAAGCCAGTGCAGGCAAACCAGAAGTCCAGCAAGTCGGCACAGCCCTCCTGCTTCAGGAAAGTCCTGAACAGGCTTATCCCATCTTGGTCATCCAGCAGGGAATGCAGTGACTCAGCCCACTTCAAGTATGGTGGGGTGGGGGAGGCACTGCCCTCAGGCTCATACCCCAGGTCCAGATCCGAGCGCCTCGGAGTGGCCGTCGAAGTCTCACCTTTAATGCCAACACCTTTCCCGGAGCAGAAACTGTAGCTGGCGGGCCTCGGGTCTGTGGACACCAGTTCTCCCTCCTCACCAGGCACTGGGGGTCGGGGAGCATCTTCGGTGAAACTTGCTCCGAGGTCCAAGGGGAAACCCTGCTCTTGGATATTCATTTTGGGACTCTGCGTCAAGGAACAATGAGCGCTGCACCCTAATACATCAGTACTTACAGCTCCAAAGTGAATCAATCTGTCCTGTTGAAACCATTAAGAGGACAAGGATTAGGAAAGGTGGGTCCATGAAACACGACCAGAGGTTTTCTCAAGACAAGACTCACGATGACGCCCTCCCGCTCAAACTCAAAGCAAGAAACTCAGTTTAAATGTTCAATCAAGATATATTTTGGCCACAAGCATAGTTCTACTTTAAAGCAATTTCTGGAAACTTTTACAACTACAGGAATGCCTCTCATGCTAAGAAGGGATGCCCAGGACATGGGAATGCCACTCCCCACAAGTCTCACTGCACAAACATCACGGAGGCTGGCAGCTTGAGCACCTCCCACCTCAGCTGCAGAGCTGAGGGACAGGGAAGGCAGGAAGACCGGAGGAAGGAAAGCTGCCTCTAGTCCTGACTATGTGTACAAACCTGAGTGAGGGCTGGACCCTCACAAGTAAGATGGAGACAATCGCTCCACCAGCCCCAGCAACACTCAGAGAGAAAGGAAGGTGCGCTACAGCCCCGAAGGTGGTGGGCGTCTTCTGAACCCCACGTCCTCCAGGCCCACGGCCACTGTTTTCTACCTGCTGCATCACGTCACGCGTGGTACACCTTCCGACACATGAGAACACACTGCAGGGTGTTCCTCCGACTCTCAACACACGCCTCAAAGAGAGATAATCATGGGTCACCTTCAGCCCCATCGACCGAGGGATCAAGGACACCACCCAGGCCCACAGAGGCGCTCGGACACCGTCACTGGAGACAATCTTAAAATGCTCTGTCAGAATGCTGCACTTGACTCTGAAAAGCCTCTCTGATGAGGATTCAGATAGCAAATAGTAAATGGGTACTTCAAGGAACAGAGAAGGTACAGAATAAAAGGAAATGCAAATACAATTTTTAGCTAAGGAAGCTATAGTTCATGTGACTTCACTCCTTAAGCTGAAAACCAAACCACCCACCCTCTTAGACATCAGGGAACTATAGAATTtgctgctactactgctgctgctgctACAAGCCTGCAAGGGGTGTGCAAAAGAGAGTAGATAAGGGCTCCAACAGAACCCCTGCCATGGTCTATGGTCCTTCCTGCCACGTCCTACAGGAGCCCAGGAGCTCTGGCTATGCCTGTCAACCCGGCCATGCAGGTGACTGAAACAACAGCCTGCCATGATGTAAGTGGTCCTGGCTAAAAGGGGCTGGAGAGAGGGCTTTAGAGAAGCATGTTGGGTTCAAAAGCCTAGAGTGCTGAACAAGTCACAGCAAACAAATAAAACCCTAAAACCCAGGACCAACTGAAGGGGGATCTATCCCCCAGCCACCACTCCACACTGCTGTCCCTTGTCTATGTGGAATCTGTCCCCCACACCAACTTCCTCACATTGCACACACTTTACCAGCCAACAGCTGCTCACGGCTGGAAGCACGAAGGATCCACAGagccaggcgtggtgtcacgcacctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggctggaggatcccttgagcccaagagttcaagactaacctgggcaacatagtgagacccaatctctaccaaaaaacagttcttaattagccgggtatggtagcgtatgcctgtagtctcagctacttggaagactgaggcaagaggatcacttgacccaggagttcaaggctgcagtgagctataatcgcaccccactgcactccagcctgggcaacagagcaagatcctgtctctaaaaaaaaaaTAggccgggcacagtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaagccaaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcaagagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcatggtggtgggcacctgcagtcccagctactcgggagactgacgtgggagaatggcatgaacccgggaggcagagcttgcagtgagccgacaccgcgccggccactgcactccagcttgggcgacagagtgagactctgtctcaaaaaaataaaataaaataaaataaaataaaattagtaaataaataagaaGCACCCATAGATGGAGGATGGTTTGCAACTATGTGCCCCCAATGACATTTCAGCAGCTAAGGACTTTTTGTGAACGCTGCTGGGTAGTATGTCATCTTGGCCTCAGCAGGAACACACAGCTTCTAAAGGTCAAGGCCCAGTGAGCTGTGACATCCTGCTGCTCACAGACCACTTCAGCGGCAGTCACTCCGTGAGCCACATCAGCATGGAGGGAGCACCCTGGGCGTGGGCACCTCCACACTAGCTCACGGTCATCTGTCTGGGACGCCATCACAGGAAAGAAGGCCTGCACCCTGACCACCTGAGCCTTACCACTATAGATGTACTACCATTCACTAGCTTGAAGAACCAAGTCACCGGAGAGTGGAAAGTGATTAATCAGACAGTGCTCAGAAGGGAGGCTAACCACAAGTCACCATCATGCTCTCATAAGGGACTTAAGTCTTCTGTGTTAATTATTGGTAGTAGCGGGACCCACAGCACCCAGCACAAGGTCCTGCAACTAACGGGCACCAGTAAGTCATTCACTGATGTAAAAAAGAAAAGACATTTGTCACAGACGCCAAACACTGGCTCTCTACAGGGGCTGAACTACTGTACCACAGAAAACAGCAGCAAATTCTTCCAAAACTAATGGGttttgttgttttgttttttgttattttgagacagggtctcgctctgtcgcctaggctggactgcagtggggcgatctcagctcactgcagcctcagcttcccaggctcaagcaattctccagcctcagcctctcaagtggcggggactacaggcacgagtcatcaacgcccggctaattactgtattttgggtttcaccacgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctgagctcaaagcaatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgttgggattacaggcCACTTTGCCTGGCCCCAAAACTAATGTTTTAATTCATGTGTGAACCAAATTTTCAGAGCCCAGAAGAAAATTTTCTTACAATCATGTGTATTTTTGGCTGTCAACTGACAGAAGACTTTTTGGTGTCCCTGGAAGCACATGAACCCCTCTACAAGCTACTGATGTTGTTGAAACATGTCCCAATTCCTGAAATCTCTGGGTTCCCACAGGGAAGCACACCAAGCATTTAGTGTACACACAAGTACACACCACACATAAAGCAGTCACGTTTACTCAGTTCAGTATCAAATGCCTGCAAGCACTGAATCTGGCCCACAGCCTGTAGCTACCATCAATAAAGTGAGTCCATAAAACGGGCGGGATGCCTACAAGTATGATACTGTATTTAAAATTCCCTTTCGTCACCGCTTAGGCATATGCTCCAGGCATCATGGCAGCAAACTCAATGCTACCTACGTGTGTAGGTATTTATTTTACCCAAACGTAACTTTTGACATTTTGATTTACATGGAGGAGGCAAGTAACACAACACGACTCTGACATCTTCCCAGCTGTCCATTGATTTAACTCTTGAAGGTTCAGGGCTACTATTTCACATGTAATTTATTCCCCCATCACTGAAATTCTCAATGACCAATGTAATCCGAAAAAGTCTGCTTAGCTTTTCTGAAACTAGAAACCCAAGACAAGTCAACACCAGCTGAAAATCAAACAAAAACAGTCTGTTTTTCATGCTTTCCCATCCTTGTCCCTGAATGGAGATCTTAAAACTGAAACCAAagccaggtgaggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggcggatcacctgaggtcgggagttcaagaccatcctgacccacatacagaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaattagtcaggcttggtggcgcatgcctataatcccagctacttgggaaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacctgggaggcggaggatgcggtgagcggagatcacgccattggactccagcctgggcaacaagagcaaaactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCTGAAACCGAGCTATTGCTGAGTATCTCGGGTAGCCGGTTTAGACTGTGTTTTCTCCAAAATAGGGCCTGTGGATCCAAGTAAGCTCGAGATTCTTCCTGAAGAAGCAGAGAACAGAAGTGTGAGCAAAAACAAGGGGCTGACATGCACATAAGAACCCTTTATAAATTATCTTAGAAGGggccaggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaacactttggtaggccaaagtgggcagatcacctgaggtcaggagttccaggccagcctggtcaacatggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccggatgtggtggcgcatgcctgttatcccagctactcaggcggctgaggcaggaaaactgcttgaacccgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccaagatagcgccactgcactccagcctgggctacagtgcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaTTATCTTAGAGGAcggtggtcacccctgtagtcccaacaccttggaaggctgaggcaggtggatcgcttgaggccaagaattcaacacctgctgggcaatatagtgacaccccatctctacaaaaaatatatatatATATATCTTATAGATGGGCTGAGAAAAATCCCCAGAGAACTGACATGTTTTTCTCTACTTTCTTCAATGCCAAGCTGAAAGTTTCACTGCTCGGGCAGTGCAGCTCTGGTTTCACGGGGGCTAAATTCCAAAGTGCGGGGCGGGGGTAGAATCTAAGAACCACACCCAAGAGAAAGACCAGTGTTTGGGCAGCAAGGCATCAACCTGGAGGGTACGGACGCCGGAGCACGCGGCTACTCAGGCCGAACCCCGACCCGGACCCGGCACGCGGCCTCGGCGAGGGCGGGCGGGAGTGTCCTCCTCCGGGACAGCCGGACTCCCGCCGACTTCTGGGCGGCGGGGAGGGCTCCAGGCCCGGCTCTCCCGGGCCCCCGCACGCGATGCGCGGCCCCTGCAGCTGCTCCGTGCCCCGAGACGCGCCCGAGGCCTCGGACCTCCAAGCGGCCACCGCGCCGCCAGTCCCGCTGCCCAGGGACACCCCGGCCCCAGCTCCCCGCGCGCCCACCCCCTCGGTCCCACGCGCGTCAGCCACCCGCGCCCCCCGCCGCTTccgggtcccgcccgcccggcctaccgcggcctagcccgccccggagcccggccctactcacccgcgcgcggtggtggcgggaccccgggcccggctcccggagcggcgcggcgcggtccgggcccatgcgctcagcggcagcgcggcgggcgggacccggcgggggcgcggcccggggcggcCCCCATCTCGGCGGCTGCGGCTcggcggcccggaggcggacgcggggcaggccgcgggggcgccgcaggggcccAGCCGCCAGCTCCCACCCGCCCGCTCCGCGTGGACGCGGCTCCGGGCCGACTCCGGCCGGCTCTGGCGGCGGCAGCGGCCACGATCGCCTcccgagccagagcccgagccagagcgccgaagcccaggcccgagcGCCCCCGCCGGCGGCGTCCGGAAGTgcgggggcggggccggggcgcggggacgaggtgagagcgcggggcggggcctcaacacggggcggggccggcagcgcggggacgaggtaaagggtgtggggcggggcttcaggcgcggggcggggctgaaagcgcgaggataaagtgaggagcgtggggcggggccgacagcgaggggacaggtgaggagcgcggggcggggccggggcgtgggcggggccggaagcgagAAGACGAGGTGAAGAGCTCGGGGCGGGGCCTCGGGCGTGGGGCGGGGACCAGGGAGTAAGGCGGGGCCCGCCTCGAGCAGAAGAGGTAAAGAGCGTggggcggggcctccggcgcggggcggggccggAAGCGAGAAGACGAGTTGAGAAACATGGGCCGGGGTCTCTGCATGGCCGGGAGAGGGCGTGGTCAGTGCCTgccgggggcggggcgtgccgggggcgcggtcgcgccgTCTTCCCGAGGGGCGGTGCGGAAGCGGAGCCCGGGAGGCTTTGGCTTCCCAGAGAGCGGAGTGGGAGAGGCGGCGTTGCAGGTCCTTGGAATGGCCGCGGCCGTGGGGAGCACTGGGCGGACTGCGCGCCCCGAAGGGCGCACGTGGGGCGCAGCCCTTTTCTGCCGCCAGTACATCGGAGGGCAGTCAGGGGGCTGCAGGCCTCGGGGCTCCCTGCCCAGCCGGCCCTGGAGAGGAGGCCCTCGTGGGGACCGCCACGGCCTGCCCGCCGCCGTGAGGGAAGCAGGCTCCCAGGAGTGGGGTGGTCGGCAGGCAGGGATGGCCAGGGCCCTTGGAAGGTGGGGTGGGCTCCACCCTCCTGAGTCCCAAGGCAGCCTGGACTCACAGCGCCAGGGAACACGTTAGGCCCCAATATATGGTGGCTCTCACCCGGACAGGAGCCACAACCTCCAAAGAGCCCACCGGCTAGGACCCTCTGCCTTGATTTCTCCCAGGCACCATCTAGTATCAGAGAAGGGTTCTCCTTCCCTCCGCTGCCCAGGCCAGCCCGAGAGCAAGGCCATTGGAGTGTCCAGACCCCTGCACCCCTTCCCCTGGGCTGTCTCCACAGCGGCCCTGCCAAGGGGTCCAGTCCGATCCTGCCACCCTGGCTGCCCAGATCCGTGTCACTTGCCCTGCAGGCCACAGAGCATGAGGTCACAGCCCCAGGCACCCCACGGCAGAGAGGCACGGGCCCCCAGCAGCAGCCCCAGCACCAGCTCTGGCCAGCCCAACCCTGTCAGAACCAACCCTCTGCTCTCCACCCAGGCCTCAGCCAACCATCAGGCCCTCCCCAAGGAGGAGGATGTGAGTACCAGGATCTGCCGCCTCCCACAACAGCCCAGGGCCCTGTCCTTCCCAGAGCACTATTGGGCCTGGCACCTCCCGGGATGCTCCAGGCAGCCCCCTGGGGTCAGCTATACCCCCGTTTCACAGAGGAGACAGCTGCAGTTCAGGCCACACAGGACCAGCTCGCCTCCTGTTGGGTGAGGGCTCCCCACCTCGTCCGCCCCACACCTGAGACAACAGCCCTCATCTATCTGCCCTCTGCTTTAGGCCTCCCAGGGCTCCCTGCTGCCCACAGCCCTTCAGGGCCCTTCCTAAGGGCGCCTCCCCCACACCTTCCCCTAGATGCGTCTGGCCACTTGCCCGCCTCCGTGCTTCCGTGTCCATCATGTCCATACCTGCCAGCTCCCTCCAGGCACCTCTCACGTCACCCCCATGTCTTTCCCTGGGCTGTGTCACCCTGGATGCCCAGCCTCACCCTTCAGAGCTCCCAGGCAAGCACAGAAGTCCCAGCTCCAGGCTCCCCGAGCTTCCAGCCTACCCCCAACCAGATGCCCACAGGTGGGACTGCATGGGGAACCATGTGTGGAAGCCTCCCAGCCCTCGCCCCTGCCAGCACTCAGCATGGTGTCTGATGCCAGCATCGCTGTGTGGGAAAGGGGGTAGCATGGGACAAGGGCCACTAGGCTGTCCCCAGCCTGCCAAGGGCCCAGGCCCACCTCCCAGGGCCATCACTGTGCTCAGAGCAGGTGGGCAGGGGCTGGGGATATGAACGAAGCTGCACTGTTAGACCAACACCTGGCCCCGCTGGGTCCTGGCCGCAGGCACCCTGCCAGGTCCCACAGTGCTGGACACTGGGGCCTCCCCGCAAGCCCCCTAGCCCATTCAGCCTCAGAACCTTAGAGGAGACAGAGTGGGTGGCCTCCATGGTAAAGCACAGTTTCCAGGGATGAGGGAGTCCTGGGTGGCCAGACAGACAGCAGGACCTCAGACACTGGCCCCTGGGCTGCCCCCCGACTCCCAACAAGGTCCCCAATGCTTGCCTTGGTTCTGCAGAGCTGCTGCTGTGTCCGGGCCAGGCTCTCGGGGCTGTGTCCACGTCCATCCTCCTCTTGGCCCTCGGTGGCAGGTGTCCCCAGGCCCTGGGACCAGAACAAGGCCCTTGGGCCTCCAGCTCCTCGGGGCCCCTGCCCTGCAGGGACAGGAAGGGGGTCAGAAAGCCTGGAGGAAATGCAGCAGCCCTTCTAAAGTAGGTTGTGGTGTGGGTGTGGAGGGGAGATTCTCTGAGCCTAGTGGGGGTAGGAGGAGACCAGAGGCAGGCCAGGCAGAAGAGAGGTAGAGGAAGGCCCTGAGGAGGGGCAGGGAGGCGCGCGGGGGCCTGTGGTGTGCAGGGTGAGGTTCAGCCACCTCCCTTCCTCACAGAGCTCCTTGAAGAGGCAAACGCCCTTTGCTTCGAGCGTGAGTTTGCCACGAAGGCTTTTATTTGATTGACCGTAGATGACATTTAATCAGGTTTTGTTTCTAGGCACCAAATGAGACACTTAAGAGCAGACATGGAATTATTTTCTTCAATGTAGACATAAAAGGTATGtttttttgtttgttggtttttggagacggagtttcattctgttgcccaggctggagcccagtggcgtgattttggctcactgcagcctccacctaccatgctcaagtgatcttcccacctcagcctcccgagtaactgggattacaggcgtgtgccaccacaccccactaattgtttgtatttttgctagagacagggtttcatcatgttgcccaggccggtctctaactcctgagctcaagggatccacctgcgttggcctcccgaagtgctgggattacgggcccaagccaccatgcccagccTAAAAGGAATACCTTGAAAATAAAGTGGCTggcccggagcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgatgcaggtggatcacgaagtaaggagttcgagaccagcctgaccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatagaaaaattagccaggcgtggtggcgcacacctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggataattgcttgaacctgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagatcgccccattgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcgagactctgtctcaaaaaaataaaaataaagaaaaggccaggcacggtggctcacacccgtagtcctagcagttcgggaggccaaggccagaggatcacttaagcttaggagttcaagaccagtctgggcaacatagtgagaccttgtctctactaaacaatttttaaaaactagctgggcgtggtgttgcgcacctatggtctcagctactcgggagcgcgaggcaggtggatcacttgaacccagcggttggaggctttagtgagctgtgattgagccactacacgtcagcctgggcaacagagtaagaccgtgtctccaagaaataaaaattaagaaaataataaaGTGAGTTTTGATGCCTTAAGTGTGTTTATCCATTTAACTGAGGAAGACCACTTATAAAAAATGACCCAAAGGAAACCCTGGAAGACACCCCAAGGACATTAGCTGGGGAGTGTTTGCCGCTGTACGATGTGTGATGGAGACAGCCAGCTGCAGAGATGGACACTGTGCAGCCACCGACCCTGCATCAGTGTAAGGGGAGCGGGGGAAGAGGACGGACGGTTCTGATCCAGGGTTCTGGAGGCTGAGGGAAGCCTTGGGTTCAGCCTCTTCCAGTCTGCCCCTTCTCTGCCCCCTCCGCTCAGTCCATAGGTGTGAGAGGTGGGAGTGGGCAGGCAGGGGAGGCCGCTGGAGGGGAGGGAGGCCCCTCGAGGGGGAGGGAGGCCTTGGACCATCCCGTTCAGGCGAGGGAGGACTGCACTTTCCATCGCAGGCAGAGCCCCCACCACCCTCCACCGCCTTCCAGGCTGTAAGGCGAGCCCCAGCTCTCATCCCTGAGCCTTCTTTTTCCATCAGTTCTGAGCCCACAGGAGAGGCCAGATGCTGCCTGTGCCCCCATCCCAAGCCCGACAGAGAACAAGGAGCTACAACACCCCAGAGACATGCCGCCAGGCCACGCACACAGGGCACCACTTTTCCTGAAAATAGAAAATGTGggcggggcgcagtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcgggaggatcacttgaagtcagcggtttaagattagcctgggcaacaatgcaagaccctttccctatagaagcattgtttttaattagccaggcatggtggcgtgcacctgtggtcccaggtacacggagacaagaggatggcttgagcccgagtggtcaaggctgcagtgagctgagatggtgccactccactccagtctgggtgagagaaagaccTGACACTGggccaggcgtggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggtcaaggcaggcagatcgcctgaggctgggagttcgagaccagcctgaccaacatggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaattagccaggcgtggtggcgcatgcccgtaatcccagctacttgggacactgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggaggcggacgttgcagtgagctgagatcgcgccacagcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactctatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaGGGCAAGAAGACTCAAAACAGTCCACGTGTTATTAGTGGAAGCAGAAGCATGAAGTTCCATTTTCTTCTTTGCATGTTCAGGAATGTCTACAGGGATGTAACAGTTATGGTCCCGTGGAACGGTCTGTGTAAGTTAACCCACTGAAGGAGACGGGCATCACGGCTGAGGCCCTGAGGGGTGGAACTGACCACTGGGCAGTGTGTGTCCAGCAGGGTGATGGTCACGGCTGATGGCAGCCACATCGCCCCACGGTGGCCTGGGGCCTGGCATGGAGGTTCTGCCACCTTCCTGAGAGACACACCCTGCCAGGGGCTTCCTGGGCCATCCCAGCTGTTGGTGTCACTTTGGGCTGGGGCCTCCCCGGCCTCCACATCTGGCAGCCCCCTTAGCACTGATGTGCCCCTAGATAGGTCCTTCCTCCTCTCCCCCTCACACCTGTCGGGCAGGTGTGTCATCCAACTATGTTGCAACACGCTTCCTATTTGGAGTGGTCCACATAGCTCTGTAGCCAAAGCTGCCTCCGCAGGGCAGATGCCCCAGGAGTGATCCTGGTCCCCACAAAAGGCAGAGGCCTGGGGGAAGGGGAGCAGGGCCCTACCTCATATGCCCTGGCTCCAATATCAGGTCAGTGTGACTGTCACCATGGCCATGGATGACCTGACGGCCTCTGCCCCCGGGACCCACCATTGGCTGGGCACCTGTGGTCAGGAGGACCCACCCACAGAGAGGTGGAGGGTGAACCACTCAGCCGCTGCGGGGCAGGGGCCCAAAGAAACGGGTGCTGTGTGTggccaggctcggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcgggtggatcacctgaggtcaagagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattaggccaggcacagtggttcacgcctgtaattttagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggcgtatcacctcaggtcaggagctcgagaccagcctggccaacgtggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatgcaaaaaattagccaggtatggtggcaggcccctgtaatctcggctactggggaggttggggcaggagaatcacttgaacccaggagacagaggttgcagtgagccaagattgtgccaaggcactccagcctgggcaacagagtgagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaagaaaTGAAACGGCTGCTGTGGCCACAGTGCTTGGTCCCCGCTGGCTCCGGGTCCATACTTGTCCCCTGGGGCAGGCCCCAGACCTGCCGTCACCCACGTCGCCTGCGCCCAGCCCCGTCCAGCAGACCTGACAGTCCCCACATCCCCGCTGGCCTCCAGGGGTCAAGGGTCAGGACGCCAAGGCCAACAGGAAAGCACTGGCAACAGGGCGGGGGCCTGGCCAGCCAGGCGGCCCAGAGGCGGTCCCCTCCATCCCAGGGTACTGTCCACACCTCCCAGTGTCCTGAGGGGAGTCCTCCTGCACTGCCTTTCTGAAGAGTTCTGACCCCAGGGTGTCCAGGGGCTGGGACTGGGGCCAGGTGGATACCAGGATGTGGTCAAGTAGGCCTGCCTGGAGGGTCCGGCCGCAGGGGCTGGGGAAGTAGGAGGGGAGGGCGGCCACCACTTCCCAACTCGGGAGCTGCTGACATCAGGGGACTGTTGGGCCTGGCCTGGCACCTGCCTCCcaggagacctgagtgcccatccttgtcttgggccagcctgtagccctaggcaaagcaggcacctccttgtgccagtgtccccctgggcaaagtgaTCGTCCTGACCTGGCCTCACAGCCCCAGAGGTCCGTGTGTGACCCTCTCTGACAGGCCGGGTGGCGGGATGGAGCCCACGGCTGGCCATGGACCAGGTCTGGTGTCCCAGGCACATTGTGAGCACAGGGCAGGGCCTGCTGGCCTCCCCCAACCTCAGTGCTGTTTTCCCAAAAAGAGGTGGCATCCAAGTGCAGGGGCCATGCCCCGAGGGGCCTCGCGCTGACTTCGGGAAGTAGCAGGTGACGTCCCACCTCCCTGGGCAGCCTCAGGCCGCTTCCTGTCCTTGTTGGGGGGACTCCTGCCCCTGCCACACCGACCACAGTCCTTGTCCCTGCTGTTCCCTCACCTGAACGCCCTTCCCTGCCCTGACGGCCTCCATCCCACACGCCTCTCCGGGCGCTGCCGCCCCCCCGTTGGTGCTCATCTGTCCTTCTGCCCACTATCCCCAGCGGCCCCGATACCTGCACACCCCAGTGCCCAGCGGTTCCCCCTCGAGCTGGCAAGGGGACATTAAATGGGAGGTGAGGAAGTGCGGCCCCCAGCGGGCAGCTGCCTTTGCCCCGGCCCACCTGCGCCCCCGCCCACCTGTGCCCTCCGCCGCCTCCCTCTGCTTGGCTGTCCCAAGATGTCTCTCTCCACTGCCTAGGAACCCTGAGGCCGCGGCCAAGTTCTGAGCGTGTGACTGTGTGTGCTGGGCCCCAGGCCCCTTTGTCGCCGCGGCGTCTGTCGTGGCAAACAAAAGTGAACCGGATTAGCCACAGTGGATTAAAAGATTTACGTCTCAGAGTTTACCTAATAACCTAACAATCGTGTCAACGGGAGCTTTGAACCCCCAGGGCGCGCCTGCCAGGCCAACTGAGAGCTCAAGGCCTCTGTGGGCAGCAGGACGTGGTCGGGGGGAGGAGACGCAGCCACGGCTGTCCTCACACCCAGCTCGGCCCCTGCGGGCTCCTCTGGGCAGAACCTGGGGAAGGCACGGCCTCTAGCAGGAGGTGGAGGCCTTTGAAAGGGTGCAGGTGTTGGGACCAGGTACCCGGCCCAGGCCCCCAGCCGCGTCCACACACGTCGCACACGGCAGCAAGGACGCAAGCAGTGTGGAGGTGGCCGCGTCGGCGACGTATGGGCCCCGTGGTGCTGCGGTGCACGACCTCTGTGCTGTCACCCCACAGTGTCCGCTCCTGCACGTACACGCGTGcacgcgcacacacgtgcacacgcacacacacacaAGCACGCCCCGCTTTGATCTCTAAAGGAGAGTCCATTGACAAGCTCTTAATCGCAGCTGCCCTTGCAGGGCCTGTCCCTGAAGTCCCGAGTAATGGGATTTGGCGCTTCTGATCCATCGGGCTGGCCGCTTCCCGTGTCATAGGTGGACATTTTTTTTCTTTATATCGCTTCTGTTTCTTTTTTTTTTTTCTCCTCGAAAAAATGCTGCTTAAACGGCACCGACTTGACATGGCTTGTCTCCTAACCTTGGAGTGGCGGCCGGGACGCCGGCCTGGATCAGTCGGGGGTCTTTGATGCCGCCTCCATGTGAAACCTGACGTGGAAGACCCACCGGGGCGGTTTTGGGGTCCGAGGTCCGTCAGGATTCATCCTGCCTCACCCTGCTCCCTTTGTCTCTTCCCCTGACCCTTCCTCGGGACACCCGGAGAGGGTCTGAGGGTGAGGGTGCGGGCGCTGCGTGTGGGCTTGCACTCGAGGGTGGGGTGGGCCGAGGGCAGGGCCGCAGCCGCGAGAACAATGGGCAGAGGAGGCGCGTCCACCTGTCCGCCCGGCCGCCTGCCCGGCTTACCTCACCTGCCTGGCTCCGTGTGCCTGCTCACGCCCCACCGTCCCGCTGTCCGCCATGATGGGCTTGGCCGTCCGTCCGAGCACTTTCAGCCACTCTGGGAAGCAGGTCCCTGCTCTTGGCCACTGTGTGGCTGGGAGGCAGAAGCGTGACTCTGGGCTGCAGCTCGGGCTCCTGCCGCCGATTGGCTGAGGCAGGGACCAGATGACGGGCCTCAGAACCCTATGGTAGCCATGGCAACCAGCCCCTTTAGACACCGCCACCCCCGAGCCACTCCTGACTGCTGAGGGAGCAGGCGGCACTGCCCGTGGGCCCATGCCAGGGTCCCCTTGGAGGAACGAGGTGGGCATGGCTGCATGGTAGCTGTCCCCACAACAGCTGTTAAGCGTTTCCGTGTGTTTCATTCATGTCCAGTGTGTGGGGTCCTTGCCCCTCTCCTGGCCTGTCCGGGGCCACTCTGTGCCCTGCCTTACCCCCAGCAGAGGCAGAAGCACTGGCCTTGCAGCCCCTGCTGAGAGGAGGACTTCAGGTCAGGCTTGCCTCAGGGGCTGAAGGCCAGGCCCAGTCTGGTGGGAAAATAAAGGGTGGGAGCAGTGGAAGCGGGAGCAGGGAGAACTTCCCAGCCCCACTGGGCAGAGCCAAGCTCTCGCCCACCTCAGACGGCAAAGGCTGCCAGCTTTCTCTCCGCCCACAGTCCACTCCGCCACCCTCTCGTTAGCTGCGGCCTGTGGAATACGTGCACGTGCTCACACAGTCCCGTCTCACAAGCCCCCTGAGGCCCCTCCCGAGGCCTTGCTCCCTGGACCTTGGGTTCCCACTGGGCAGGACTCTGGGTCTTTGGCCACACTGAGGAGACCGTCTCGCCATCAGTCACACACCTGCGGCTGCACCCGCTCTCCCCTGGGCTGCAGTGCCCTCTTGCGTCCCAAGAACGCCTCTTCCCTCCAGGGCGCACCAGCATTGGCCCCTGGCAAAGCTTTCCCGTATGTCTGGAGACGAGGCTTCTCAACCGTCACCCGTGGACATCCTGGGCACTGCAGGGCACTGAGCATCCCCGGAACCACCCCCTGCCCCCAGCCCCGTGACAGCCAGAAACAGTGTTGGCTTGTCCACGCGCTCTGACAGCAGCACTGCCTGGCCAAGACCCCTTCGAAGGCTTCCCCtaagcccgggaagctgagtcccacttcctggcccaggcccagcacccgatGAGCAGAATCTGGTGATGAACAGCTGCAGGACTGCAAGGAGCAAGCGAGAGCCTTGGGCTGCTGCAGCCCAGGGAGGCCACTACCAAGGCCATCAGAGGGACCCGGGATCCAGGGGAGCCTGGAGCATGGTCCATGGGGATCCACCTTCAAGAGAGCGACTTCGGGGCCAGTCCCAGGGAACCGGGCTTGGCATGGGCCTGGGCGCCGGGGGTCTCGGGCCGCGGCTGCTCCCCCAGGACTCTGGGCGCCGGGGGTCTCGGGCCGCGGCTGCTCCCCCAGGACTCTGGGCGCCGGGGGTCTCGGGCCGCGGCTGCTCCCCCAGGACTCTGGGCGCCGGGGGTCTCGGGCCGCGGCTGCTCCCCCAGGACTCTGGGTCCGGATCCAAGCTTCTTCGCACTGGCCTGGTTGTGAGCCGCCTGTCCCAGGATGGAACCCGGCCTTGAAGCCCTTCCCATGCCATGCTCAGAGCTACCAGCTTGTCTGGGGACAGGATGTGGGTAGGGACACCATCCCAGGACAGCAGGCAGTGGTTAGGGAGGATGGTCCAAGGCTGGAGCCCGCCTAGGGAGGGCTGCGGGGCGCTGCGGCAGAGGGAGCCAGGACCGCACGGGAGCCCAGGCTGCTGGGTGTGGCCATGTGGCCAGGGTTCCAGCTTGGGTGGCTGGTGGGTGTCAGAGGGACAGGGACTCAAGGGAGCCTGGGAGCCCCACACAATCCAGCCCGTGCCTGGGGCCAGCAGAGGGCTGGAGTTACAGACGGGCACTGGTGAGAGGGCGAGGGCGGCCAAGGACTGAAGGTGGAGGCGGAGCCCTAAGCAGGCCCGCGGGACACACAGTGGTCTCCCGGCAGCTCCCTTGGGCTCCCAGCACCCTGACGGGGGCACAGGACAGGAGCAGAGTTGCCAAGCGACCCAGAGGGCCCGCCCGCTCTCCATGCCCTTCCCTCCACTATCCTGCTGCTCTGTGCACCTGAGCAGGACTCAGGAAGCAGGCGAGACCCTTGGGGTCAGGGGTCAGACATGGACTTGTGACTGGGTGCCTCAGGCCAGCCTCACATCCACTCCACCCTACCCTTCCTGGCCTTGGCTTCCCCGTCTCTATGTGGAGTGATGGGGTCACTGACACCCCTTCCAGTCCTCCAGTTTTCTACCCCCAAGGGATCCCTGCCCATAGCCGTGAGGGTCCACCCCGGAGTCCACCCTCAGGTCCACAGCCCATTCTCTGCCCGACACCGCGGCTGACTGTTGTCATGGAAACACATGGCCTCTGCCAAGCCTGGGACACGCGTGGGGAACTCCTGGCCCCTGAGGGCTCCGAGAGGCTGGGGCTGGTGCAGGCCGGCCCAGGGCAGCTCTGCCTCCTGTGGGGTTGATCTTGCTCTGCACAGATCCCTCTCCCACTCCAGGTGCCTGAGGGTCTGCACGCCTCAGTGAGGGAGAACTGGCCGTTCTCAGAGACGGAGTCCAACACTTCAGGAAGGAGCCTGACAGGTGTGATTGGTGAGGATGGCAGAAGGAGGGTCTGGTGGCCCCAGCCCGGCCTGGCTCTGGAAggggtggggtgggcatagggagggcagggaaggggtggggtgggcgcggggagggcggggtgggcgtggggagggcggggagggcggggaggggtggCCAGCAGCCATTCCCAGGTTGGCTGCCCGGGCTCCCAGCTCAGTTCTCAGTTCCCCACACACATGTTGGAGCCGGTACAGTCCCTGGGACCCCTCCCCACAACCCAGAAGGCAGAATAGCATGCTGGATCCAGCTGCTGGGTCTGTCCCAGACCTGAGTCACGGTTTGGTCTTGAGGGATGGGTCCGGCATTTACGGAAGGCCTCTTACCTTTTTCTCAGTCAAGGACTTTTGTGGCCTCTGACCAGAAAGTTGTCAGGGCCCTGGCCACACCCAGACCCCACCTCAGTCTGGCCTGGCCTCCCCTGCGGGAGGACTAAACAGCCATGGGTTCCATCGAGGTGACTGGCAGAGGAGGTAACCTGCTGAGGCCAAATGCAGCTTCTCCCACTGGCCAGCTGGTAGCCTGGTCCCAAACCCACAACCCTGAGTCAACACAAGTCAGGACACACTGATAAGCACGTGCCACCATGGCCGACAGGGGGACCGAGGCCAGCGCCTACCAGCCCATTGCCAAGCCTGGCCCCTAACTTCTTGGGGCCCCCAGAGTCTGACCCAGGAAGCCCTACAGGCCTTGGCAGGAGCCCTGCTTACCGTGGGGCTTGGTTGGGGTGGGAAAGAGCAGGTGGTGAGTGAGGGGCAGCCACCGAGGCCTGAGTTGGGAGGTGCTGGACACACACACCATCAGGGAGTCAGGGGCAGGCCGAGGGGCTGGAGGGGGCTTGGCTTAAGTTCACAGCTGAACACGGGAACTGTGCAGGGCAGGGCGTGGCCACAACATCCCAACTCTGGCTAGAGCTGGGGCACGGAACAGCACTCATGCTGTGGGCAGCTGGGCTGAGCCTCATGGCCCCACAGAGCTGACTGAGCACTGTCTGTTTTTCATAAAGTGttttttttttgagacagagttttgctcttgttgcccaggtggagtgcaatggtgcaatcgtggctcactgcaacctccacctcccgggttcaagcaattcgcctgcttcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggtgtgcgccaccacacccggctaaatttttgtatttagtagagatgggggtttcactatgttgtccagactagtcttgaactgctaacctcaggtgatctgcctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattataggtgtaagccacagtgcccggTATGAtttttatttatttttttgagacggtgtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctagagtgcagtggtgcgatctccactcactgtaacctccacctcccgggttcatgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcacctgccaccatgcccagctaacttttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccgtgttaggtctcgatttcctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaaatgctgggattacaggcgtgagccactgcgcccggcctttttttttttctttttgagacagagtctcgctctgtcacccaagctggagtacagtggtgcaatctcagctcactgcaagctctgccttccaggttcaagcgattctcctccctcagcctcccgtgtagctgagatcacaggcatgtgtcaacatgcctagctaattttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccgtgttggccaggatggtctctatctcctgacctcgtgatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctcggattacaggtgtgagccaccgtgcctggccTAAAATTTTTTTCAAGGTCGTTCACAGAGCAGGGGCATCACATGAAGGCACTGGTGTGGGGAGCAGCAGGACATGTCGGCAGAGGTGCCCGGTGTGGAAAGAGACCTCGGGGGCCCTCCCAGGGCTCTGAACCAGGCAGGTCCTGACCCCAGGGACCCCTTGCGGCCCCGGGAGCCACGTGCTCCCCTGCAGTCCAGCAGGGCCAACTGCAGACTCCCTCTGGACTCTGCCACAGCCCCCTTGGGAGCCAGGGGCCCCTCAATCAGCCAGCAGGCCCACGTCAGGCAGCTGCCTCCAGTTCACCCCATCCTGCCACCAGCTGGGGCTGGCTTAGGCTCAGGGGACATAAACCCCCCCTTGTCATTCTGCACATGCAGCTGGGGGAGCCCTCCCTCTGTGCTCCCTGGGAAAACCGAATGGGTCCGGAGGATCAGGATTTCCAGGTAAGGGTTGGGGGAGAGGGTCAGGTACCCCCAAAACCTCAGGGCGGGAAATGCCTTAGGGTGCACAGCCCGGCTTCCCGCTGGCCAAACCTCCACCCTGCAGGTCAGGTGGAGGTAGCAGGAGGGGACACCAAGGTCGCAGGTCCCCAAGTTCGTGTCGCCCCCACCTCCTCTACCACTCGCCACAACAGTGCTGACCAGGGAGAGGCTCCTGACTCAGGCAGCTGCACCAGCACGGCCCTCTGAGGGCCTGCCCCTCCTGGTTCCTTCCAGTACCTGCAGAGCCAGACCACAGCCTCCCTTGCCCTGCTCTGAAGAATGTTCGAGAAGGGCAGGAATGTGCAATGGAGAGGGAATGGGCATCATCCGGCTGCACCCCTGGATGCCCCCAGCTACACCAGACCCTCTACCAGAGGAAAGAAAGACACAGAATACggccaggggaggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaacactttggcaggttgaggcaggtgggtcacctgaggtcaggagttcaagcccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccttctctactaaaatacaattagccatacatgatagcggggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgagacaggacaatcacttgaactctggaggtggaggttgtagtgagtccagatcgtgccactgcactccagcctgggtgactgagcaagactccgtctcaaaaaaagaaaagaaaaaaaaacacaaaaCACAGAATTGAACCTCGCTCTCTGCAGCTCACCGGGGGACGGGCACAGCCAGAGTCAATGCCCACGGCTCATCCGAGGTCTCAGGGGCAGCAAGGGCAGGGGTGACAGGATCAGGATCCCCAAAGAGAACACCAGTCCTCAAAGCAAAGATACACACACACAGCCTGGCCCAGACTTTACTCGCTCCCGGCCCCACGGGCACAAGGAACACTGCCGCAAACGTCGGGGCCCAGCCTGAGAGGAGCCTCTGGGCGGCCCAGGCCTCCTGGGGATCCCTGCCAAGCTGGCCCCGGGCTGGAAGGTGCATGGGCAGCACACGAAACCAGGATCCACCCACTGCCCACCGGTGGCCCTCACAGCTCCCCGGGATCTGTGTCCTCAGTGCAAAGGGCCTGGCAGGGAAAGCTGGGCCTGTTGGTCAGGCATGGAGGAGCTGTGTGGTCACTGGCCACTGGCTCTCTTCTGCACCACCGCCGGCTCTGACAGTGCCTGCTGCTGCAGCTGCTGGATCAGCTCCGCCACATAGATCTTGAACAGGGGTACAGGGTCCTGAAGGAGAGAGGGGCTCATGGTGAGGCCAGGGAAGCCCAGGGCAGCTGGAGTTCCGACGGGGATGGGATCAGCAGCTGCCGCCCAGAGGAACCGGGGCATGAGAGGCCCTGGAGGGCAGAGTCCTGTCGGTGAGATGAGGAACCCCCTCCCTTGGGGATGCCGGAGGCACACACATACCCCTGTCCCATCCCTGTGGTCATGGATAAACAGAGGGAATAGGGGCAGCCAGCTGCCATGCCATCAGGGGCTCCCTGTCCTGACAGCTACCTCAGGCTCCAGACCCTGGGATGCTGGTGGCCGAGCAAACCCTCAGTGCAGGAACCCACTCCTCCTACTGAGGGTCCTGGGACAGAACAGGGTGGGGACTTGGAGGGGAGGGAGCGGGCCATGCTCCTCTGGGTGGGCAATGCAGAGCAGCAGCTCTTCCCCAAGCCCACCCAGTGCACCAGCCCCTTGTGCAGGCTCTCTCCAAGGCAGCACACTCCCAGACCCTGAACACCAGGCTCTGGGCAGGCAGCATCGGCTGGTGCTCACACACTCACCTTCTCCTCCAAAAGTCTCTGCTTCTCAATGGCCTCCTCCAGCGTGAGGCCCACCCACTCTGCCTCCTCCTCTGGGATGGCAAATTCCTAGGCAGGCAGAGATGGAAAGGGCAGTGAGGCCCAGGGCCGGGCCACGAGTCCCCAGGTGTAGGGAGCGGGACGGAAACCCTCACCTTGTACTTGTCGTAGATGGCTGCCCGCCGCTCGGGGTCCTCGGGGTGCAGCTGGGGGTCCTGCCGGGCAAGCCGCAGCAGCATCCCTCGCTTCAGGTCCATCCCAAACTTGGAGCACAGGTCCTCCTTCGGGGTCTGGCAGAAGGCTCACATGGGGCCAGGTGCTGGTGGCAGGGCCCCACCTACCCTTCCAGCCAACCCACCTGGCTCCTCTCTAGCCGCTGGTGGTCCCAGGACAGGACAGAGAAGGCCCGGGTGGGGCCGCCTCAGCACCCCAGCCTGGGGGGTGGGATCAGCACAGAAGCAAGTCCAAGTGCAGGGAAAGGGGCGGCTGTGCTCGCTCAGGCCCCACGGGCAAGTCAGCCACCCACAGAGCGACAGCCTCTCCTGAAGGCAGGAAACCCCACTGGTGCTGGCCAGAAAGGGGCATGGCCCCACTCACGCTTTCCCAGTGACCCTCCTGTGCAGATGTCAGCGTGCCCCGGTGTGATGCTGACCTGGGGCTCCCGTGAGTCTGACTGGCCCATCCCAGACCCTGTGTGCACTGACTCGCCCCACCCCGCTTGCCTTGAGGATGTAAAAGTCGAGCCCATAAGCCTCATCGATGAGGTCCAGGGTCCGCATGGTCACAGTCACTGTGAACTTCTTGTCCAGGATCTCACTGTAGAACTCTCGCTCAAACAGCTGTGGCTTCCACACTTTCTTCAGCCTCTTGGAGAGCTGAGGGTGCAACAGAGCCTCCATGAGTACTGCTGCTTTCTCTTACATACCAAGGGGGGCCCAGGCAACTGCCCTCACCTCCCCCCCGGAGGCTCCATCACAGAACCACTGCTGTCAGACTGGGGACCTAGAGCTAACTGGGCCGGCCCCCAGCCCAGTGCCGCCCCAGCCCGACCCGGGTCCTGACTGTGTACCCAGAAGTCAGCTGCTCCCCAACAAGCTGGGCGTTCCCGCCCTGGTCACATGGTTGCTGCATGTGTTTCAGAAACATGTGCGACCCCACAGTTTACAGGTTGTCACATTCCAACCTGGAGGTGACACAAGTCTCCCCACAGGCTTCAGCAGTCCCGCCAGGAAGTCCACCACAAGCAGCCTCGAAGCTCTGCTCGCCTCCCCCACCTGCTCTGCTCGCCTCTCCCACCTGCTCTGCTCATCACACAGGCCTCCTCCCCATCCTAACTTTACCCCGACTCCCCACGGCCTCTGGTTGCTCCCCCGGCCTGAGTCACCCCACCTCACCCCTACTTTATCAGTCCTGTTTGCCAGAACTGCGGTTCTTCACTCAGCGTGCTCCTTTGCCGGAGATGTGTCGCCTCCAGGCTGTAATCCCCAGGGCCCACCCAGGTCTCTCCAGGTACCCCGGGCGTCCGGCACAGAGCCGGCACAGCCAAGCCCTGAGAGGAGCCCCTGAAGGCCGCCTGCGGACCCACCTTGTCGTTGTTGGCATATATTTGGCCCAGGATCCAGCCCTCGCCGCCCCACAACCCCCGCTGGGATTCGGGGGGAAAGTAGATGGGAATGGGCACGTCCTCCACACGCTCCCGCTGCCCGTTCTTGGGGTTGATCTTGAACTTGGCCCCATGAGGCCTATAGTGCACGGGAGTGGGCGTCCGCTCCTCCTCCAGGGAGCGCAGGTAGTGGCCGGGCAGGCGGGAACAGATGCCCTCCCGCAGCTGCAGCCGCTTCCAGAGCCACACGGGATACTTGTGTAGAGGCATCGCGAGCCTGGCGGGAGGTGGGGGCTCGCAGTCAGTCGCAGCCTGGCCAGGCCCCCGGCACTCACcccctaccccggcccccgactctcacccgctaccccggcccccggctctcacccgctaccccggcccccggctctcacccgctaccccggcccccggctctcacccgctaccccctaccccggcccccggttctcactccggcccctgtcccgcacccacctgcccctccccttctgccccggcgcccccCCACACCCCACCTGCCCGCGCCCACCTTTCAGGGTTCAGAGCCCACCGGAACCGGAAGCCGATCTGCCGCGCCTGGCCCTCCTCCCACCGCTGACTGGCTGTAAAAGCCATCCGTCTACCCCCTCGTCCCGCCCCGCTTCCGTCTTTAGGGACCGTAAAAAACACCCCACATACAGCAGCAGCAGCTCAAGGCACCGTTAGCTACGTGCGGCCCCGGCGTTTCCGCGAAGGGCGGCACGGGCGGGGCGGTGCTTGTTCTCCCGGGCCCCACTTACCCTACCCGGGAAGGAGCACAGAAAAAATGTAAAAACTCGTTTAGTTTGAAAAATCAATGTAGAATATTAAATTCACCAAACACAGATAGATCAGATCTACATAAAAATATGTCTTAATATCTTAGAATTTTCCTTTACTCCAAAAAACCCCATATATATATGTTTCTCCTTTATAAGCTTAGAGATTGCTTTGGTGGTCAAGTGCAGGGCGGCTGGGGGAGGTAAGACCTTCAGGAAGGCCATATCCCGGACAAGACCCAGAAGGGAAGCCCCCAGAGCCAAGGGTAGGAGGGCCCCACCCGGGTCTCAGCCACTCACTTCTCCAGGGCGGATCCGAGACACTCACAGGCCTCAGGGAGGGGCCAGGTGCTGCTCCTGGTCATTGCTTCCCCCACAAGGTTTGCATGAGGAGCAGAGACAGTCCAGTCTCCTGAACACCCACAGGGCACAGAGCCCAGTGCAGGGGGCAGACACCACCGCAGCTCCTGGGACCAAGAGGAAGCTCCCAGAGGGGGGCCCAGGAACGCTGGGGTGGGTGGACAGGGCTGGGTAGGGGTTCCTTCTGGGCCAAACCCCCAGAGCAGCAGAGCACCCCAGTCCAAGGAAGCTCTTCTCAGGGACCCAAGGCTCCAGAGCCAGGAAAAAGGGAGGGGCGGGGCGGGAGCCTGCATCCCCAGTGCCCATCAGCTCTGGGGGAAACCTCCGTCTCCCGTCCCTATGGTGACCACAGCAGCAGAGGGGGATCCTCCATGCCCCAGGCAGGCTGGCATCAGGGCCACACAGGGGCCAGGAGCAGGGGTCTCGGAGTCCACAGCTCCCGGCCCCAGTGGTGGGCTCAGGGCTCCTGGGCGCCATGGGTCTCACCACAGCCTCGCCAGGGAACAGGACCATAGGGAGTCCTTCTCCCCATCTCTAGCCACCCACAGGCCAGCAGAGCACACAGCCCCACCCTCGCACAGGCACCTGTGGTCTCCAAGTAACCAAGCCCAGGCCCCAGGGGCCACTGCAGACAGCAGCTGGGATCTGCAGAGGGATCTCAGCAGCGAGCAGGCAGCTGGCGAGGAGAGGTGCGTGTGAGGGAGGGGTGGCCCTCTCCTCAGTAGGAGGAAGTAAGAGGGTATCTAGGCCAATTTATTCAGCTGGAAATCAATCTGTCCAGGGCTGGACCAGGCGCCTCCCCCTCGATACAGCTCCTGGCTGAAGAGGTCATCAGAGCAGCAGCTGTCCCCAGGCCAGTGTCACGTCACTGCGTACAGTTCCTCCCGATCGTTCTTGCAGATCTGATAGTGGCAGGGGAATTTCTGCGAGCAGGCCCAGGGCTCGGCGGGCTGGTCAGGTGGCGGCAGCAGCAAGGCTGCGCTCCCGGCCAGCAGGATGTGCCAGATGCTGTGGGTGTAGTAGTAGTTGTCGCTAGTCATCATGGAGGTGTAGATGGCGATGCCCACAGAGGCCATAGAGACGCCGGGCAGGAGGTAGAAGGCCCAGCGCTGCCACGAGGTGGGGTAGCACTGGCGCCGGTGCCCGCAGCGGTAAGCCTGGAGAAAACAGCCACGCAGGTATCAGTGCAGGTGGGGCCGCGGCTGCAGCTCCCAGGGCCCAGATACGGTGGTTACTGGGGGCCTGCCCAGGTCTGGGCAGCAGAACGACAAGGGTGGGCTGCTTCGAGGGGGCTCAAGGCCACTGGTCCTCAGGCCCAGGCCTCAGGGACACAGCCATGCTGGGCCTCTGTGGGTGCCATGGCAACCCCCAGCAGATATGGGCATTCACTGGTTGGAGCAGGACCAGGAACGTGGCTAGAGCAAGGGGCCAGGCTCTCTTCTCCGAGCACCTGGGCAGCAGTGCCAGCCAGCCCGGCTCCTTACCCACATGGAGGCCATGATCACGAAGGCAAAGAGGCAGGGCCCCAGCATGTTCCACATGCCCCTGCGGTCCAGCTGCAAGGACATGGCGATGACCAGTGTACCCAGAAGAAACAGCACCTGCGCAAGACACAGGGATGACTGCAGGGACGTCTCTGAGGGCTCAAGGCCCAGCAGGAGCACGCGTACCCCACGGCCCCACAGCACCTCTGCCTGCCCCCTCGGAGCTGCTGCCACCCTCAGACCAGCTCTGCCAGCCTCTGACTAGCTCTGCCAGCCGGCAGGGACATGCCCCTCCTTCAGCTTCTGTATTGCATCCACAGGTGAATGTGGCCAGGCAGGCATCTCTGGGGGATTAGACGATGCTCACACAAACTGGACAGACGCATATGGCCGCTCTGCACCCACACACTCACTAGCCCCCTGTACCACTGGGTTTCTAGAAGTCCCCCATCAGGGTGGCTTCAGTCTCCCACCCACTGTTCCATGGGGAGGGGCTCCCACCCCCCAGTCTCCATCAGACACCTCTGCCCACAGCCTACAGTTCTCTGCCTATCTGCAGGTTCAGGCCCCGCACTCAGCCCTGCAGGACCCTGGTGCTTCCCAGCCTCCCCTCTGCCCTGGCTGTGGGGCTCCCATGGGCACCCCCTTGGGGCAGTACCCAGCCTGCAGTTCCCAGAGCAGATGGGAGGGCAGAGCATGCAGCTCACAAGCCCAGGGCATGAGTCTCCCCTTGCCAGGGCCAGCTGCCACAGAGAGTCCCCAAAGCATCATTGGCCCCAAGGACCCAGGGAGCATGGGTGGGGGCTTCTCGAAGGCAGGGGGCCTGGCCTCCCCTGCCTACCACCTTCCTTCCTGGCATCCTCCAAACAGCTGGCACTGCCCCCTCACAACTGCCTGCGGGGTCTCAGACCCGCATCTCCGTGTGGCATCACAGAAGACATGAGGtttcttttcttttcttttgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtgctgtgacctcggctcactccaacgcctccaatgcctgggatcaagcgatcctcccaccttagtctcccgagtggctgggaccacaggcatgtaccactacgctcggctaacttttcgattttttgtacagcccaggctgctcttgaacccctggcctcatgggatcctcctgcaagtgttgggattacaggtgtgagccaccatgctcggccAAGGCATTACAGGTGTGAGCCACCATGCTCGGCCTAGGGATTACAGGTGTGAGCCACCATGCTCGGCCGAGATGTGAGGTTTCCAGGGGCCGTGCCCAACGCCAGGTCCGGCCTCTCCCACGGTACTGCCTTTCGCAGGCTGCACTTGGGGGCCCTGCTCCCCCGGAGCCCACACCCCACGTCGAGGGCCACTCACGTATTTCAGGACTGTCTTGAGCCGTGCCATGCACAGGATGGTGACCCAGATGGCCGCCCCGGAGCCCAAGAAGTCGCAGTACTGCAGCGTGTCGTAGCTGAGGATGCACAGCACCGCCTCCCCGGGCTGGTCGCAGGCGTGGTAGAACTGTGGGGAGGCTCCATGAGCGCGGTCCTGCCCTCCCACCCCACATCCCTGCAGGAGGGGCCAGCCTACCGTGGAGAAGAACATGGTGTAGGCGTAGACGGAGGCCTCCACCAGGAAGAATCGCCGCACTGAGACGGCGATGGGGGCCAGGAACATGAGGTTGCTGAGCGTGAGCAGCAGTGTGGCCGCCCTCTGCTGGGCCACCGTCTGGGCTGTGCTGTTGTCCGTGCAGCTCCACCCACGCCAGCCTGCGGTCACAAAACCCCGACGCGGAGGCTGGGGGCACTGCTGAACCTCAGGGCCCACCCCTCACCCAGGACCCTGCAGAGAAGCCCCTTCCTCACCCAGGAGCAAGCAGGGTAGGCACGGCGGGCGGGGTCCAAGGTCAGGAGGCAGTACCACCCCCCGGGGATACCTGGTGCCTGTGCCAGGCAGACGGATTGTTGGTGGGGAATGGGGGAGTGGGGAGGAGGCTTTGCCCCTGCATTGCTCTGCAAGGGTCTCTCTCCAGCCCCTTGCGGCGCTCCCCCAGGGGAAAGGCACAGCACAGCACTGGAAGCCAACAGCAGCAGCGTCTCGGGGCGGGCGGGGCCCTGGCACTCACCTGCCTTGCAGCTGCAGCTGGCATACAGGTAGCTGTGTCTGCGGAGCAGGAGGCACTGGCCATAGGGTCCACAATCGTTCAAACAGGGCACCAGGTACAAGGTGGTCTCCACGTGGACCACAGCCTGCTCACAGTCCCTTTGAGGAAGGGGCCACAGGAAAGCTGGTGCAGTGATCTGACAGCCCAGCTGCCACCAGCGCTCCCAACAGGCTGACAGACATGAGAACGCAGCATTAGGGCCCCCAGCTTTCAGCAGCCCTGGAGGAAGCACCCCTCTAGCTGGGTCACTCCGAACGCCAACCTCAGGCAGCCCGGCCTGTGGTCCTGAGTGAAATGACAGGGTGCCTGGCCCCCGTCTCTGCCCTAGGTTTACTTACTCAGCATTCTCAGGGCACATGAGCTGCAGGGAGAGGTACCAGTTGTCTGTCTCTGGGTAGGGGATGATGAGGTTGGCCCTGCGAGACCAGGCGCTCAGAGACAAAGGGTAGCCCTGGAAGAAGGCTGCAGGGGAGCCAGAGGGCCCCATCAGAGGAGGCCGGGGCGGGGGGCTGGCCGGGGCCACGCTGACGGTGACGCCTGCCCATCATACCTGTGGTGCAGTTGAGCGAAGTATTGAAGCCAAGGAAGGGCGAGGCAGCATTCACGCAGGCCACTACGACGGTCTCGTTCCGCATCTCTGTCTGGAAAGGGAGGCGGTGCCGGCTCAGCTCCAGCAGCCCCTGGCCGCAGTGGGGTCATCTGCCCCACGTGCCAGCTCAGCCTGGTGCTGGTGCCtttctttttttttttttttctgagatggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagggcagtgccgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctccgcccctgggttcatgccattctcccgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgccaccacgcccggctaatttttgtattttcagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtcccaatctcctgacctcgtgatccaccctcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccGGTGCTGGTGCCTTTCTCTGAGACTCCTGCAGGCCCACGGTGCACCGGGACCTTCCTCCCCGGGCCCTGGGACATCCTGCCTCCACCCCACCTCTGACCCGAGCTACCCCACAGCCCCGGGGCCTGTTGACAGGAACAAGGCTGCCCAGCAGGGGAGGCCCCCCAACATGGGCCCCTGTCTTGGCCCGTGCCTGCTGGTGTCACTGTGCCGCCTGTCCCGTGCCAAGGTAAATGAGGAGGCGCTGCAGGGGTTGCCCGGCGCCCTGCCCGAGCCCAGGCCACAGGCCGCTTGCAGACAGCAGGTACCTTGTTGGCCCGCAGGGAGATGGTGAGGGAACCCCCGCTGTCCATGCCGGTGTTCAGGCGCAGCCGCATCACGGAGGGCGTGTCCGAACACACCCTCACCGAGACCCTGTCCAGGGGCTGGAAGTGCACCGACACCACGTCCATGTCCTCCCGCGTGACTGGGTAGTTTGTGAGGCAGAAGGGGCTGCGGTCCACCCTGCCACTCCTGCCCAGGTCCTGGTGGTCGGGGCTCGGGGACAGCAGACCAGAGGAGGCATTGAAGCTCTGGTTTTGGCTGCTCTGCAGAAGGGGCTGGATGGTCACGCTCCGTGGCCTGCAAGCTGCCGAGAGGACAAGGGGTTTGGCTGGAGGAAAGTCTGGGGATCTGGGGAGGGGCAGGGCCATCCCTCCAGCCCTTGTGCGGCCCACCTGTGAGGGCAGCTACAGCACTGAAAGCCACTGTCCCGAGGGGCCCCACCAGGCTCTCAGCTGTCACTTGCAGCCACCGGTCCCAGGGCGGTGAGGGCAGCAGCAGGCGGCAGGGCCAGGGGGCACCGGTGCAGGTGAGCACCTTCTGGAAGTTGCTAGGCAGGGTGACCGGGCCCACGGTGAGACGCACGGGGCAGCCCAGGCTCCCATTGGACACGCAGTCCCGCAGCTCCAGCAGAAGCTCCCGCGTGTAATCGGGGACAAAGACCCTGCAGCGAGGGGACACAGCTGGCTCAGGCTCTGCCATTCCTCAGCCCAGGGACGCAGCGTGCCCAGGCTCTGCTGTTCCTCAGCCCACTCTGGTGGGGGCCAGGCATCTGGACCACTTCCCAGCCCAACCCCAGGACTCAGGGCCAGGCTCTCGCACCCACTCCACCGAATCTGAGAAGGGGCCGGAGGGCAGAGCCGGGCTGCCCCCCAGGCCCCCGCTCACTTGAGGTAGCTGGGATGGGAGAGGAGGGTCTGAGGAAGGGGCACGTCCGGCTCCATGATGGAAATCTCGACCACCCGCGTGACCAGCAGTTCAGGCTGGAAGACGTAGGCACAGGTGGGAGCCAAGCCCTAGGGAAAGAACAGGTGTGGGCGGGGGCGGTGTCAGAGAATGCAGGTGTGAGGGCATGGTCTCACCAGACGCCCCCGGCATGCAGGGAGCAGGGCTGGCCCCAGAGTGCAGCGTGGAGCCTAGAGCGAGGACCACCCCAAAGAGGTGAACGGCAGGGACAGGCCATCGCCGCAAGGTTCTCTGCCTCCATCCCGGAGGGCAGCCCCCCTCACCTTCAACTCGATCTTCTGGGATGAGGGGGGCAGGTGGGCGGCCACGAACCAGTCCCCGGGGGCCGGGTGGGAAACGTTGACGGAGGCATTGCTTCTCGGTGTGGTGCTCAGCGGCACCCCGACCTGGAAGGAGGGCTGTACCGCGGTGTCGTCCGGGAAGCTGGTGCCCAGCGGGTTGATGACCGGAGGGGCGCCGGAACGGAAGTGCCTGGAGACGGGAGAGCAGCACCGGGTTCAGGCACAGGGCTTGGCCAGGCGCGGGAGGGTGGGCAGGCGGGCGGGCAGCCACCTACACGGTGATCTCCGCGTCGGTGCAGGCAGCGCCGCTCTCCCGGGAGACCTGCAGGAGCCAGCGTAGAAGCACAGCATCTGGGGGCACGCGGAAGCGGAAGAGCCTGGCACTGCCGTACCAGCTGTAGAAGGACAGCCTCTGCGGGGCCTGCGAGAAGTGCTCGGACACCAGCCCCACCTCTGTGAGGAGAAGGAGGTGTCAGCCAGGCCGGGACCCTCCTCCAGGGCCGCAGATGGGGAGGACGAGTCCCCCAGATGGAAAGGGCTGGAAGCCCCCGGGGACCCACCTGGAGATCTTGGCACACCAACTCTGACCTTGGCAAAGGTCACCGACACCCTCTGGCCCCTCAGCCAGATCCTCTGCTGTCCCTCCCCAGATGGCCTACATCCCACCCTCCTGGCATCTGGGTCTTTTCACAGCTGCCGCCTCACTGCAGCAGCTTCCAAACAAGCCGCAGGGTACCTCAGCAGCCATCGCCACCCTGACTGCCATCGccacccgcactgccatccccacccgcactgccatcgccaccctgactgccatcgccaccctgactgccatcgccacccgcactgccatccccacccgcactgccatccccacccacactgccatcgccacccgcactgccatcgccacccgcactgccatcgccacccgcacTGCCATCGCCACTCTGACTGccatccccacccgcactgccatcgccaccctgactgccatcgccacccgcactgccatcgccacccacactgccatccccacccgcactgccatcgccacccacactgccatcgccacccgcactgccatcgccactctgactgccatccccacccgcactgccacccggacccccTCCAACCTTAGAAGACTACACTCCCCATGGCCAACCCAGGTCGAAGCCGAAGGACCCAGCAGGTGTCAGGAAGGAGCCCCCGCCCCTCATCACAGATGCCCTGGATATCAAGGCACGGTCCTCCCACCTCCTCTCAGCCTCCCACATCTCCATCCCTGGATGGGTTGGCTGCCTGCTTGGGCTATGATGACTTTGGACACGGCGAGACCGGAGCCCAAATTCCCCTTACCCAGAGGGAGATACTGCATGTGGGAGGGACCCAGGCCAGAAGCCTGGCCAGTCATGAGAACAAGGGGACAGCTGCCCTCTGCGTTCCAAGCGGGCAAGGCTCCTAACTGTCCTCAGGGAACGCACCCACGCCTGGTGCGGGGATGGAGAAGGGCCCGTGGGAGACATCCTGCTCATGGCCCCAGGCGAGGACTCAGGCTCTCACCCCCAGCCCCCCGTGCCAGCTCCAGCCTCGTGCCCTTGCGACCTTGGGCATCCTTCCCTCCCTGGGTCCCAGCCTTCTCCTGGGTAGGTCAGGGCGGAGGGCACATCCCTTTGGGGGCCCCTCCCTCCGAGGTTAATTAACGACAAAGGCTTCAGAAGGAAAAGCACAGTGGACACAGCAGGGGGCGGGACCCTCCCCTCTGCTGCAGCTCCCCCTCCCCACACACTCAGGAGCGCTGCCTAGGTCTCACTGGAGAGTGGCTGGCTCAGGCCCAGGCCCCTCCTGAGGAGGGAGACAGGTGAGCAGCAGGCTCTCCTGCCAGCCTCGTGACCCTCCCATAGAGGCACCAGAAGAAACGATACACCTGCCAATAGCAGCCTGTCGGCAAATCCAGGCCAAGCTCCAGGGGAACCTGGCGTGGCGACTGGGCAGGGGCTGGCCAGGCTCCACCCACGACGCACTCCAGGCTTTCCAGGTGTCTGCTGGCCACCAGGTCCCACCCACCAGGCTGTGGCCTGATAATGTGGGCAGAGAAAGCTCAAGTGCTGGGAGCTGAAGCAGGACAGCCCCCCAGGACCACGGTGTCCCGGAGAAAGCCGGCCTCTGCGGGGGCAGGCAGGGGAGGCCACCTGCAGCACACACAGCCCCTGGGCTGCTGGGGCAAAGCCCTCAGCCCCTCTGGCCCTGGAGCGCCAGCCTGAGGGCACCTAGAACCCAGCTGGTGGCTGTGAAGTTTCAGCAGGTACACAGAGATAAGAGATCTGTTCAAGGTTGTCCTAACACCCAGTCCCCGACTCCCAGGGCTCACAGCCCCTCCAGGCCTCTCCCAGGGCTCTGCAGCCCAAGCTCCCTGCCCAAGTTGCCCACACATACCAGGCTGTTAGGGGTGCTCTGAGCCGAGGTGACCACAGGGTGAGGAGGGCCAGCTACACAGCCCCCTGCCTGCCCCACAGCCCCTCCACGGACACAGGGCTGGGTGGGGAAGGTGGTAATGCAAGTCCCTGGCCCTGTCCTGGGAACCTGAGTGAAGACCCCAGACCCACGTCCTCCAAACCGGGACAGGCACCCATGGGAGACCCTGACCACCCACAACGCCACAGAGCACTTACTCCTCGGCAGGCTGGGAGGAGTGAGGGGCTGAGCCAGCACACCAGGCCTCTCCACTGTCCACACACAGGGGTTCCATCTCCCAGGAACCCCTCACCAGGCCTGAGTTCTGGGACAGGAGAATTTCCTTTGCCAGTTTCCAACGGAGTAAGGttttggtatttctgagggtctcactctgtcacccaggctagagtgcagtgccatgaacacggctcaccgcagcctcagcttccTATGTAACTGGAACCGCAGGCTTACATTACCACACCCAGGTTATTTTtttttctttctgtctttcttttttttttttgagatggagtctcgctctgttgtccaggctggagtgcaatggagcgacttcggctcaccgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtggctgggattacaggcatgcgccaccactgccggctaattttgtattcttagtagagaagggggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccacccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgcgggattgcaggcgtgagcttcgcgcctggccATGGAGCAATTTAATCCGGGGCACGGTCCTCGGGGAAAACTGCCTTTCATCTCTACCTGTGCCAAGCTCAGAAAGCAGGAGGCACAGCCCCCGAAAGAAACAGGAGCTCAAAGGAGCATTATTTCAGGGGCAGGGGAGGGGAGGGGCTGGGGGCCGGGAAGTCGGGGAACAGCACCGCATCAGCTGCCGGGCACCTGGGCACCCGCGTGGCTGGGGACGTGTGGGAACTTCCAGCCGGCCAGAAAGGACACGGCCCCTCCAGAGTCCCAGGCCACAGAGGCCGGGGCAAGTCCTCACCATCTCAGGGTGGCCAAGGCCTGACGGTCTCCACACCCACGTCCCTACCCCGTGGAAGGGCTACGCCTTCTCCCTGGTCCAGCCGCCTCCTTGGACCTCAGTCAGGGACGGGGACCCTCAGGGAACAGAAATGCAAAGGGAGCCCGGCGAGTTTCCCAACAAGAGGGGAGAGGGGCGCCCTTTCCTCAGCCCCTCTTCCGCCAGCTGGGAGTCCCTCCTCCCAGAAGCCGGGCCGGCGGCAGGAAGCGGCCGTACCAGGGCTGGGGGTCACTGCGGAAGGGCTGGAGCCATGACGCCCACGGGCCCCCGCTACAGGGTCTAACAACTTTCTCCCGGCTCTGCCCCTCTCTCAGGCCGGACCCGGCCGGTGAGCTCACGGCCCAGCCACTCCTCCCAGCTGGAGTCCCGGGCAGAGTCCCCTGGGCCCCTCCACTTCCCCGCGCCGGGCGCGCCGGACCTGGGCGCTCTGGGAGGAGGAGGGAGGGGAGGGGGCGCTCCAGGGGCCGATGTGGCCCAACCCCGATCGGGGGACCGAGGAGGAAGCGCGGGGTCCCGTCCGCCTCGACCCCTAGGACACGAAGCGCCCCAAAGGGCCACTGTGCACCCCCAACCCGCGGCGGGGACCCCCAACCCCGCGCCGGCGCCAGATGAGCGCACAGGTGCGCCCGGGGTGTCACAATcccgccccgcccgcagccccggccccacgcccccgATGGCGCCCGCGCCTCCCGCTCACCGCTCTTCCCGCTGTAGCCGGCGGAGGCAGGCGGGGGCCGGGCAAGCAGCAGCAGCAGCAGcggccccgccaccaccgcggccaccgcctcgcccccggtcccggtgccagcccggcccatggctccgcgctcggcccggcgctacccggcccgcgtcccGcgccgccggcccccgccgccgcccgggcagcctctgccgcctccgcctctgccgcctccgcctctgcccccggcgccCATGGCCCGGCCGGTCCCCGCCGCCGTCGCCCCGGGCACTTCCGCCCGCAGGCCCCGCCCCGCAGGCCGAGCCGGGAAggcgagggcggggtcggggggcgggaccggggggggcgcggacgccggggggaggggtcacgtggggcgccggtaggggggaggggtcacgtggggcgcgcgggggacggaccggggcgcgcgcggtccggggggacgctggagggagggcgcgggatggagggatcgcgggggTCCCAGGACGGAGAGGTCGCGCCGGGCGCGCTCGGAACACGCAGGAAATTCTCCCCGAGGCGTGGGCTCCGCGGGGCTTCCCCGCCGGTTCGCTGAGTCCCAGCTCCGCTCGGCCGGGACCTCCGTGGCAGGCTCGGGGAGCCCGCGGGGGGCAGAGGCGCCGACCTCCGCCTGGGACCGAGAGGAACCCGCGCCCTGCCCTGCCCCGCCCGGCGCGCGTGGGCCTGAGTCAGGCGCCTCAGCACGGGGACCCCCGGGCCGGCCTTCACGCCGCAGAGCCGCTGCAGGTGCGTGTCAGATCCACGCTTTTATGCACAGACGAGAAGGCTGCTTGTGTTTAGGGACTGTAGTACCCGATCGGGGTGGCGGTTCACACGGGTGCGTGGCATCAACTCCCGGCGCTTTGCACCTGGATGGATTCCCACCATGTAAGATTTGAGCCGAAAAAAGGAAGCGATAAAGCCTAGAAAACTCGGGGAAGCTTTTTCCGTCTTAGGGCCAAGTCGGCTTTTCCAAGCGTGGCACAGAGTCCAGAAGTTCCGCCGCGTCGTGGGTGGGAGGGGGGTGGGGGCGTCTGCAAAGCCAAACTGCATAAGCGAAGTCCAAAAGACGAGCCCCCGACTGGGAGGTGGGGGACACAGCTTGCAGCTCACACCGCAGAGCTCACCTTAATAAGACTAGTAACAGTGCAGTAATAAACAGCTCTAAATCAATCACAGAAACGCTCCCCTAGAAAATACTGAAGGACAGCTGCCAGGGATACGCTGATCCTCCTCCCTCAGCGCAGAAATGCAAATTAAAAACTACTccagctactccggaggctgaggccagagaatcgcctgaacccgggaagcggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccaccgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaacaaaaacacaaaaacaaaaacaaaaacaaaaaacaaaaCACTAAAGTGTCCTTCCCAGGATGTGAGGGTAAAAAGtttaaaaaaaaaaaaaattaaaGGAAAACCCCATTAAAGTGACTTCTTTTTCCTTTCACCTAACACATTGGCAAATAAAAACTGTACTAACAGGTGAGACTGTGGCCCACAGACACTGCTTGCAGCAGGCAGAGGATGTGGGAGCCTCGTGGGAACCCCCCCGACTTGTCCACTGAAGTAACAGCAGCAATGACCTTCCCTCGGGAATTCCACCTCTGCGTTTTTCCCTCCAGGTACGTTCACGGAAGTGGCACACTGCATGCGTCCAGTGAGTCAATGTGGCACCGCCTACATGCGTGTCACTGGCCGGTGGGACATTCAAATCATTCATACGGGGTCTAAACGAGACAGAGCGTGGCCGAGACAGGAAAGACAGGAAGCGCTGTGCTGCTTGGAAATGGTCCACCAGGTGCAGCAGTAGCTGCAAGAAAGGAACAGGAAGAACGGTGTGTTCAAAGCTCTACCATTTGTGTAGAAAAGGGAGAAAAACACGTTTCCTTTGTGTGTGTCAAAGGCATCGAATGTCTGGAATGATCCAGCACCGGCTACACTGGTTGACCTTGGAGGAGGAGAGGCGGGGTGGGGATGGGGATGGCCGCAGGGACCATACCTGTTTGTACCTTTTGAACGCCGCAGCGGGTGGTGAGGGTTTACGGAGCGGGGGAGGGGAAGCTGACTCCACGAGCCCAGACCCCTGAAGGCCAGAGCAGCGGAGGTGGAGGGTGTTGGCCGGGGAGGAAGGAAGCCCCGGCTGAGCCTTAAAGAGACCCTTTGTTTCCCGGGAATCCCAGCTGGGCCGTCCTCAGCCCCGACTGAGGGGAAAGGGGGGCTCCCAGGGGTTCTCATTTTAAAGGCACGGAGGTCAGATTGCAGATTTTGCTGAGCCGTGATTTGAGTGTGCTGTGCCGGACTGCACCCAGCAACCAAGGTCAGCACCAGCACCCAGGACTGCTCCAGACCCAGTCCCTGCTCCAGGCTGGGCCCAAGCCCCCCTCCTCCCACTGCCCTCCCCTGAGTGAGTCACCTTAGTCTGAGGTTCCTGTGCCCCAAGTCACCCACCGGAGAGGGAGAGAAGCGGCAGAGCCCCCACTTCCAGTGCTCCAGCTGAGGGCTGGTGAACTTGAAGGTGGGTAAGAATCCCCAGACGGAAGTCCAGAGACGTCTGCTAAGTCACAGAGTGTTGGCAATGGAGAGACTCTTCTGTAACAGGAAACACAGCTCAGTCAGGCTACTGGTCAGGGAAACAAAACAAGCCACTTTGTCAAAAAACAGCCACGCAGCCCTTGCCACAACAGATGCTCACACTTTGCTGGCAGGCATGTGAACCCCCTCAACCTTCTGAAAATTATTGTGCCAACATTAAAATGTAATGGAGAGggccgggcgcggtgtctcacgcctgtaatcccagtactttgggaggctgaggccggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctgggctaacatggtgaaaccccttctctactaaaaatataaaaagttagccgggcgtggtggcaggtgcctgtagtcccagctactccagaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccaggaggtggaggttgcagtgagccaagattgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTAACGGAGAggccgtacgcggtggctaatgcctataatcccagcactttgggaggctaaggtgggcgggtcacctgaggtcaggagtttaagatcagcctggccaacatggcgaattatttttgtctctactaaaaatataaaaattagccaggcatggtgacatgagcctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacccgggaggtggagcttgcagtgagcagggatcaggccactgcactccagcctgggcaaccagagcaagtctccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTGTAATGGAGAACACTAAGGCCTAGAGACAGACACACAAGGATGTTTGCAGCAGAACTGCTTGTATTTGGAAAAACCTGGGCGCTCCATGAGGGCAATGGGTAAATAAATCATGCTATAATATACTCTGAttttttttttttttttttttttgagacggagcctcactgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtgatgcgatctcggctcacgcaagctccacctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagttgctgggactacaggcgcccgctaccattcctggctaattttttttgtttttagtagagatgggatttcaccctgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcatgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaaatgctgggattacaggcatgagccacagcgcccggccTACTCTGAttttttttttttttttttttttttgagatggaatctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatcctggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccaggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcctgccaacacacccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttagccaggatggtctcgatttcctgacctcgtgatctgcccatctcagcctctcaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccTACTCTGAATATTTATGCAACTTTTAGATGGGTCTATAAATGTGTCTTCAGAAGGAATGTCAGTAAAGTGAAAAATCCAGTTGCTGGATAACAGGGACGCATCGTATTTCCAAACAAACAGGAAGACCCTCAAGCCCCCTCCCCAGGTCCCCCTCTAGTGAGCCTGGGTGAGGGTAGACTCCAGCTGCCTGCAGCCTGGCCGGAGGGGAGGGTTGCTGGGTGTGGGAGCAGCTTTCCACAGTCGGTGTGCTCTTCGCCCAGCAGCAATAAGCATTATTATAGTTGTCTTGGATAAAAATATCAAAAGTTAAATAAAAGCAAAAAAAAAAAGCCGTAATCCAATTTTCTCCAAATAACCACCCTGTGCACCTCCTGCAAATGCTTCCTGTGTGCAAGACTGTGTGAGGACCCCTCTCTCTCTGTGGACACTCTCCCAGGCTCTGCAGGTTGAAAGGAGTTTCCCTCTGTCTGTTCATGGCCACCTGGTAGACATGGGAGACCCTGTCTTCCCACTCCGCCCCGAGTTTCCTGAGGGCAGGAGATGGGTCTCTCTCACTCTGTGGTCAGGCAGGAGGAGTGCAGACCGTAACCCTGTCTTTCTGACCCAGTGCCCTAACCTGTCAGCATGAACCACACCACAGGTGCCCAGACATCAGAGTTTCACAGACAGAAATAGTTTCCCCAGAGTTTTGGGGCTTTTTTAGGCTCAACTATCATGCATTATTATTCTTTCATAAAAAAAGGGTCATTTTCccagcctgggcaacatggtgaaacccagtctctacaaaaaaaaaaaaaccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTTGGCCTTTTCACAAGATGGCGCTGAAAGCAAAGAAGGAAGCTCCTGCCTCTCCTGAAGCCGAAGCCAAAGCGAAGGCTTTAAAGGCCAAGAAGGCAGCGTTGAAAGGTGTCCACAGCCACATAAAAAAGAAGACCCGCACGTCACTCACCTTCCAGCGGCCCAAGACACTGCGACGCCGGAGGCGGCCTGAATATCCTTGGAAGAGCACCCCCAGGAGAAACAAGCTTGGCCACTATGCTGTCATCAAGTTTCCGCTGACCACGGAGTCGGCCGTGAAGAGGACAGAAGAAAACAACACGCTTTTGTTCACTGTGGATGTTAAAGCCAACAAGCACCAGATCAAACAGGCTGTGAAGAAGCTCTATGACGGTGATGTGGCCGAGGTCACCACCCTGATTCCGCCTGATGGAGAGAAGAAGGCATGTGTTCGACTGGCTCCTGATTACGATGCGTTGGATGTTGCCAACAAAATTGGGATCATCTAAACTGAGTCCAGCTGCCTAATTCTAAATATATATATATATATatcttgtcaccataaaaaaaaaaattgtagccaagcatggtggcatgtgtgtctgtagtcccagctactccacagcctgaggcaggaagatcccttgagcccaggaggtcaaggctgcagtgagccaagatcgcaccactgcactccagcctgggtgactgagcgagaccccatctcaaaaataaataaaTTAACTAATTAAATCATTCAAGggctggggacggtggctcacacctgtaatcccaacactttgggaggcagaggcgggtggatcacaaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctggctaatatggtgaaaactgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaactggcacgcacctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccgagaggtggaggttgcagtgagccaagatcacatcactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcaagactccgtctaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggaaaGGTCATTTCCCAATCCAAAAAAGTAGGAAGTATGTACCCTTTTtgaaggggatctgctcctccacacctgtgggtatttctcgtcaggtgggacaagagactgagaaaagaaataagacacagagacaaagtatagagaaggaaaggggggcccaggggaccggcgcactcagcctgagaggacctgcaggggcgctggtctctgagttccctcagtatttattgatcattatttttactatcttagcgaggggagtgtagcaggccaacagatggagagaaggtcagcagggaaacatgtgagcaaaggaatctgtatcatgagtgagttctaggaaaggtactgtgccgggatgtgcacataggccagatttatgtttcactttacataaacatttcagtgtagcgaagagtaacagagcagtattgctgccagcatatctcgccaccagccacagggcggttttctcctatctcagaatagaacgaatggtcggctttacaccgagacattccattcccagggacaagcaggagacagaagccttcctcttatctcagctgcaaagaggcctctctccttcactgctcctccttagcacagacctttttacgggtgtggagctgggggatggtaaggtctttccctccccacgaggccatatctcaggctgtctcagtgcggggaaaccttggacaactcccaggctttcttgggcagaggtccctgcggctttccgcagtgcactgtgtccctgattaatcgagaacggagaatggcgatgacttttaccaagcacactgcctgcaaacaaattgttcacaaggcacatcctgcacagccctgaacctattaaaccttgattcaacacagcacatgtttctgtgagcacaggtttctgttaaaattacaggttaacagcatctcaaagcagaaacaatgtttcttagtacagatcaaaatggagttttctacatagacacagtaacaatctcatctctcttcttttccccacaCttttttttttcttttgagacgaagtctcactcttgtcccccaggttggagtgcaatggcgcgatctcagctcactgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagccgggattacaggtggacaccatcatgccccgctaatttttgtattttttagtagagatggggtttcatcatgttggccaggatggtcttgatctcctgacctcaggtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggaATGACAGTTCAGTTTTTTGTTGTTTTACATTCAGTCCAGCTTTTTGTTGTTGTTTTACGTTCAGCGGATGGCAGTAGACGGGTttttctttttcctttttttttttttttattgagacagggtcttgctgtgtcgcccaggctggagtgtagtgggaacatggtggctccctgcagcaatggcctcctgggatcaaaggatccccctgcctcagtctcccaggtgattacaggccagcaccagcacgcccagcAGTGGTTCTTATTTATCCCCATTTTGTCTGAGCAAATGAATGCCTGTCCTGGGTGTGGGTGCGAGTGAGCTGGAAGATGAAGGGCATGGGCAGTGACCGCACAGCGCTCAGCCTGCAGGGAGCCTGGGGTGAGTCCAGCAGCACTGGAGCGCGGAACCACAGCAGATGTCCTTGTCCCTTCCAAGGGGTGGGAACAAAGGTGACAGGGACAGAGATGGCTGCCGGGGTAGGAGGCCCAAGAGTTGCTCTCTGCTGAGAAGGCTCCCCTTGGTGTCCCTCAGAAGTGTACCTGGGCGGGCCGATGGGACTGGGACTGAGGCTGTGCTCCTCCTACAAGGAGGGGCCCACTCTTCCTGGATCTCCCTGCAGTGACCTCAGCAGAGGTGAAAGAGGTCTagccgggcacagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaggcggatcacctgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatggtgaaaccccgtcgctacttaaaatacaaaaaaaattagcaaggcgcagtggtgggcacctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaaccggggaggtggagcttgcagtgagctgagatcccgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaagaaaaagaaaGAGGTCTAGCCTGTGTACACGtggaaatccaagaggacagggaagacaaactgagacagaaaaaaaatatgtgaagaaataccccaaattctaaaattcggtgaaaggcattcatttacagattcaagcagcttagtgaagcttaacaagaatcaatgcaaagaaaaccatagccaattacatcatagtcaaactgctggaaaacgaacttatagagaaaatattgaaagcagacagagaaagataacacattatagtccagggaacaattgaatggcataacttcccattagaaacaatggggtccagggccgagggctgtggccacgcctgtaatcccagcactgtgggaggccaagatgggaggatcaACAACAGCTTCATGGTTTCTAACgggagttcaggcgcgcaccactacacccacctaatttttaaaatttttttgggccgggcgcggtggctctcgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcaggcagatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatagaaaaaattagccgggcatggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactccagagactgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcaatgaggcgagattgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaagaaattttttttgtagagacagggttttgccatgttgcccaaactggtctccaactcctggcctcaagggatccacctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgctcagccagaataaacatttttttcaagcgcacacaatttgttttccaatacagatcacatgctgggccataaaccaagtctcaattaatttaaaatagtttaagtggtagagaatatgtcctctttcattaattaatttatttatttatttattttgagacggagttttgcccttgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggctcaatcttggcttgctgcaacctccgcctcccgggttcaaatgattctcctgcctctgcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggtgcctgccaccatgcccagctaagttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcactggttggccgggctgatctcgaactcctgacctcatgacccgcccaccttggcctcccaaagggaatatgttctctgaccacagtggaattaagttagaaacctgtaacaataagatatCAggctgggcacggtggctcacgcctgtcatcccagcactgtgggaggctgaggcaggcggattacgaggtcaggagattgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccggatgtggtggcgggcgccgatagtccccgctactggggaggctgaggcaggagaatcatttgaacctaggaggcagagctcgcaataagccaagatcatgccattgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccgtcCaaataaataaataaataaataaatatttaaaaaaataaaACAGGTGAGAGACCTCCATGTAGGGCAATGCCCTCCCTACATGGGTGTAACAGTCGTAGGGCTGGGACAGAATTCAGCTGTCCTGATCCCCCCGCTGTCCCACCCTGCAGGTATCTTTTTGAGCACCTTCTACAAGGACCATCCAGCACATCCATAGGAATGTTCCAGAAATCCACGGCCGTGCTCAGCCCTGATTCCTCACTCCACCTCATCCTCAGTCAGGCTCTGGGGCCCTCTGAGTGGTGCCACTCCAAGAGTGAAACCAGATAGGCAGTCCATGCTTTGGATGGCAGTGAGACCCAGACGCAGTTCCAGCGCTGGCCTCTGAGCGGCAGTACAGCCCCATGGACCACCAGAGCCCCTGAAGCCCAGCTCTGGTTGGAGGTGATGCCACTCTGCACCTCCCTGGCTGCTGTTtgtattagtcatctatgctgcataacaaataccccacaacttcatgatgtaagcagcacacgttcattatcttccagattctgtggacaggaggctgggtggggcttagcagggagcctctgagtcagaggctctcacaggctgtggtcaaggtgtcagccacgctgaggttaccccaaggcttgactaaggggggatGTACttgtttttttttccagaccgggtctcgccctgttgcccagcctggagtgcagttgaacagtctcagctcactgttccctctgcttcccaagttcaagcgattctagtgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgtgtcacatcccaccaggctaatttttgtatttttggtagagacggggtttcatcatgttggctgggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcaagtgatctgcccaccttggcctagctaggtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccactgcaccACGCCCACtttttttttttttttttaagagatgggatctcgctctgttgtccagcctggagtgcagtggcacaatcactgctcactgcagcatcaacctcctgggctccagcaatcctcctgcctcagcctcctgCAGATTCACTTCTAAGCCCACCTATGTTgcttttggccagaaacatcagttccttgtcatgggggcctccgcacagggctgctcacaacaggggagctgcttctcccaggaggtggcggagcagcagcagctgcagtctttggtgaccagattgtgaaagtgacactccgtctcttttgctgtgtcagaagtcagtcaccaggcatggtccacactcaaggggtaggcattacacaaggaaatgaaCTGGGTTTTGCTTTTCTTGTTGAGTTACGAGAGttcttttttgttttgttttgagacagggtctcattctgttgcccaggctgagtgcagtggtgcgatcacagctcaatccagcctggacctcttgggctcaagcaatcttcccacctcagccttcccggtagctggaaatacaggcgcacaccaacacgccccgctaattttttatttttttgtagagacaggtttcactatgtttcccaggctggtctcaaactcctggcctcaagtgatcctccaacctctgcctcccacagtgctaagagtacaggtgtgaaccatcCCATCACGCCTGGCCAAGAGAGttatttatttatttatttattgagacagagtcttgctctgtctaccagcctgcagtgccataacacaatctcagctcacagcaacctccgcctcccagggtcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctcggattacaggcacctgccaccaggcccggctaattttatatttttagtagagacagggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtctcaaactcccaacctcaggtgatccacccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgcgatgacaggcatgagccacctcgtccggccCAGCATAAttttttttttctttttttaagatggagtcttgttctgtcacccaggctggagtgcaagggcacgatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagggattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggtgcatgccaccacacccagctaattttttgtatttttagtatagacagggtttcgccatgtcggccagtctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggcgatacacccaccgcagcttcctaaagtgctgggatgacaggcgcgagccactgcgcccagtcTCAGCATGTTTTTAATGTGCAAAATAAAATACAAGGAAATAAAAATATAAAAAACTATACTGAAATAAATTATCAAAATATTGTAGGCCAggccgggcgcagtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttaggaagctgcggtgggtgtatcgcctgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagactggccaacatggcgaaaccctgtctatactaagaatacaaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcgagcacctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacccaggaggtgggggttgcagtgagctgagatcatgcccttgcactccagcctgggcaacagagtaagacgatgtctcaccaacaaacaaacaaaaTATTTTAGGCagcggggcgtggtggctcacacccgtaatcccatcactttgggaggccaaggcgggttgatcacaaggtcaagagatcgagaccatcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaaacaaaaattagccgggtgtggtggcgcgtgcctgtaatctcagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaattgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccaggattacaccactgcactccagcctggcaacagagtgagactccatctcaaaaacaaaaacaaaaacaaaaacaaaaTATTTTAGgccaagtgcggtggctcaggcctgttttcctagttactggggaggctgaggcaggaggatcgcttgaggctgggaggtgaaggctgcagttgagctatgactgcaccactgcactccagcccaggtgacagaacgagaccctgttgctaaaaaaacaaaaataaaacattaaaaaaTGTACGATATAGTggccgggcgcggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcgggcagatcacaaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagccaggcgtggtggcaggcgcctatagtcccagctggaggctgaggcaggaggatggcgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgcactccaacctgggtgacagagtgagacttcgtctcaaaaaaaaaaCAGAGTACGCTATAGTAATATCTGCTTTTTCCTttttgcaatagctttattgggatacaattgacatactatacacttcactcatatattttttgtttatttactattttttttcaagagacagggtcttgctatattgccctggctagtctcaaactcctgggcttatgtgatcctcctgcctcagcttcccaaattgttgggataataggcctgagcAAGAGTCCAGCCTCTAAAAAGAAAGAAAGTcacttctttataccatagtactgcaaattctagtcagagcaactagacaagaaaataaaataaaaggcattcagattggaaagaaagaactgaaaccgtctctattcccatatgacatgatgttttttcttttctttttttttttttttttgagacagagtcttgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcatgctctcggctcattgtgagctccacctcctgggttcaagccattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcaccaccatgtccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccacgttgaccaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcgtgatccgctcgcctcgggctcccaaagtgctgggattacagacatgagccagtgtgccccgctccatatgacacaatcttatacaaagaaattcccaaggaattaattaaaaactattagaactaataaatgcatttggaaggcttgcaggatacaagatcaatacacaaagctcaattgttggccaggcgtggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagccctttgggaggccaaggcgggtggatcacctgaggccacgagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatggcgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaataaaaaaaaacaccagccaggtgtggtggcaagctcctgtaattccatctactcgggagcctgaggcaggataactgcttgaacctgggaggcggaggctgcagtgagcagagatatgccattattgcactccagcctgggcaacaagagcgacactctgtctgaaaacaaacaaacctcaattgtctgttatacacttgcaatggacaattcaaataagaaaacaattccattcacaatagcagcaaaaagaacaGGCTTTTTCAAGACTCATTAAGTAAGTTCTAGCAGTGGGAGACCTAACCATTTCAAATAGTAGCATGCTGTGCTATCTACCCAAatattaccgtacctgtgaattctgttggtgacaaagtcacaggccctgcaactatgaatgtggcttcttccttatatccgcaattgaatgaattagaggaatgcagtcacatcagaggccatttgagaataaaggtcggatttttccccattcaaattcacagaccAggctcacatctgtaatcccagcaccttgggaagccaaggcaggaggatttcttgatcccaggagtttgagaccagcatgggcaacatagggaggccccatctctacaaaaaattaaaatattagctggttgtggtggcgcgggtctgtagtcccgcctactcgTCCTGGCCGCAGAGTCAGCGTCTCCGGAGCGCCTCCTTCTCCCGCCCTGGGGCTCACGTGGGAATTTCACCCTCCATTGGAGGGGGCTCAGACCAGGGCTTCTAGACCTCCTTTTGGTCCGTGAAtttatttttgagacagagtcttgctctattgctcaggctggagtgcagcggtgcagtcacagctcactgcagcctcaatctcctgggctcacgcgatcctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtggGCCTTCCTCCGTGGGAAAGCGTTAAAACGATAGTTAACGGTTGCGTCGGTGTAAAGACGAATGCAATTCGAGAAGGATTCATTATTATTTTGTTTTTTCTTCTGATTTTTAACAGAAATTGGCGTTGAACATTTCCCCCGTGAgcgccgggccacgggggtccggggcggcggggggctccggggcggcggggggctcccgggcgggcgggggcgggTCTCGGGCTGGCACCGCCCTCCGCGCCCGCTCCTCGCGCTCACAGCGGCCCGCGGGCCGGGCGTCATGGGCGGCCTCTTCTGGCGCTCCGCGCTGCGGGGGCTGCGCTgcggcccgcgggccccgggcccgAGCCTGCTAGTGCGCCACGGCTCGGGTGAGTggggccgcgcgccccggcggggACGCGGAGGGGAGGAAGGGGCGCGCGCCGCTCGGCCTTTGTGCGCGCACGTGCGGGCTGGGGTCCGACTCCCCCAGAGGCCTCGGGGCGCGGGCTGCGGGGTCCGTCCGAGTTGGGGAAGGCGCCGGCTCGCACCCGCACGCCCCTCCAGTGCCCGTCCGGCTCTGCGGCTCCTTCTCGCCTCCCCAGGCCCCAGGCTGCAGGCGCCCGGCGAGTTGGCAGCCTGGGCGGGTCCGGGGCGACCGAGGGCCCGGGAGCGCAAGGAAGGCAGAGGCCGGCTGCAGCACTGGGCGGGGAGGGGGTCTCCCGGCCggggtgggggtgggggtgtgggggggtgagggagtcggggggtgggggtgggggtgtgggggggtgagggagtcggggggtgggggtggggggAGCCGCTCCGCTGGGGCGTTCGCTGAAGGCCAAGTTAGGCCAGAATCTGACTGGGACGTCAGGCCCCAAGTccccggccccgccgctgcccggcccccccAGCTGCCACCTCACAGGACGATCCATGTCCCAGGGCTCCCTCCATCGGCTCTGAAAAGTGAGCCGCCGCCTGCAATGCCCGCACCAGCCGCAGCAGAGCCCCAGGCTACACAAGGCGCCCTGCAAACTGGGTTTTGGGGGAACAAACCAACCAGGGGGTCTTCCTCCCGTGGGCTTCAGCCGCCTGCTGGGGTTAACTTTTCCTCCTGGCCTGGCGGAGCCCCTTTGGCTCTGTCCAGATTCTGTGGGACATACAGGGTCTGGGCTCCTCTGGAAACCAGGGACCCGATGCCGGAGGGTAGCTTGGCTCTGGAGCAGCCTGGGACTATAGGAAGGTGAGGACGTCTTCTGTTTCCCTGGCAGCGTCCCCTCCAGAGGAGGACGGCTGGGGCGGAGCTCAGCGCTGACCCTGGGTCTGGAAGCGACAGGCCTTGAAACTCCACAGCAGCACAGGCCCCGTCTCCTGGCTCGGACAGAACCCTGCTACCTTCCCTCTTCAATCTTCAGGCCCCTTTTTGTCCGTGTTTCCAGGGCTCACCTGGTGGGGAAAGTGTGTTTCTCCCTGGTTCCCTGCCACTCATTCACCTCAGACACAGGGTGGGCTCTGGGTTCTTCCTCATGTGGAAAGTCGGGGCTTCAGACCATGTCTGTCGTCATCCAGAAGGGATGGAGTCAAAAGTGAGGCTGGAGTTTTGCAGGATCTCCAGACTTCCCTGAGGCCACTGAGCTGGGCTGTGCCTCTGTGGACCTCAGGGTGGTCGCTGAGCTGGGCTGTCCCTCCCTGGACCTTGAGGTGGTCCCTGAGCTGGCTCTGCCTCTATGGACCTTGCGGTGGTGGTCCCTGAGCTGGGCAGTGCCTCCCTGAACCTCGGGGCGATCTCAGGCAGCCTCTGCCTCTGCTGGGAGGAGCCATGGCCCCTGGGAGAGGCTAGAAGCCCTGGGGACACATTGCCTTGGGTGTCCCTGACAGGGACTATCATGGGGGTGTTTGTGGCTGTGGGCACCATCCCTGTCCCTTCCAGAGTGCCCTGCATAGAGGCAGACACCCTGAAGCCTGGTGACCCCTGGGCTCTGGCTGGGAAACCCGGGTCGTGGGGACGTGAAAGGGTGAGGTGGCAGTGCCTCTGACCTCTTGCCTTTTGAAGGAGGGCCCTCCTGGACCCGGGAGCGGACCCTGGTGGCGGTGAAGCCCGATGGCGTGCAACGGCGGCTCGTTGGGGACGTGATCCAGCGCTTTGAGAGGCGGGGCTTCACGCTGGTGGGGATGAAGATGCTGCAGGTAGTGGGACTCTGGGCTTGTGGGTGTCCCTGTGGGGATGGGGTTGGGGGATCCTTCTCGGCCTTTCACATCCCAGCCAGCGCCGGGGCAGGGCCTGGCTTTGGCAGTTGAAGGGGCAGGAGGGATCTATTCTGCGGTGGGGGTGCTGCCCATGCTGGTGTTATCTGCAAGGTGCCTGAGGTCAGGGCATCACAGCTGCTGTGCTAGTGCCCACGTTTACTGTCTGCGGCTCCTCCTTACCTCAATGCCACCCAGGCACCAGAGAGCGTCCTTGCCGAGCACTACCAGGACCTGCGGAGGAAGCCCTTCTACCCTGCCCTCATCCGCTACATGAGCTCTGGGCCTGTGGTGGCCATGGTACGGCAGGGCAGGGGTGGTGGAAGGGCCTGTGGGTAAAGGGCGTGTGGGTGTGTCTTTCCCCCCAGCAAAGGGAGGGGCCCTGGATTGAGCCCAGGGGCCCTTGGTGTTCCCCACTTCTCCCCAACCATTATCTCTCGCTGCAGGTCTGGGAAGGGTACAATGTCGTCCGCGCCTCGAGGGCCATGATTGGACACACCGACTCGGCTGAGGCTGCCCCAGGAACCATAAGGGGTGACTTCAGCGTCCACATCAGCAGGTACGGGGGTCCTGATACACCAGGCTGCTGCTGGGGGCAAGGAGGGCCATCACTTGGGGTGGTGGCAGATCCACGAGACCTGGCTGTCTTGCTGTGCTAGGATGAAGCCAGGTCGGACATGACAGCTCACACTGGTGAGAGCCGTGTTCTCCCAGGGCACACAGGGCAATGAGGTGTTCCCTTTGTGTTGTGTGTACCGTGCCATCGTTGCCTGTTACCTGACACCCCAAGGGGTTGGCACGGGGCAACTTGGGGGGAAATGAGGCTCCCAAAAGCTGGGGCCTGGGCGGGTCCACGAGGCTGTAAGAGGCCGAGGCCAGGCTGGAACCCGGTTTCCCAGCTCCACTGTTACTCCTTCCCTGTCTGCAGTCACAGGCTTGCTCCCCTAGACAGAGGGCAACGGGAGCAGCAGATGGTCCCTGGGATTCCTCAGGGTGCACATGAAGCCTGAGCCTCACATTGCTCCTGTCCTGGCACAGGAATGTCATCCACGCCAGCGACTCCGTGGAGGGGGCCCAGCGGGAGATCCAGCTGTGGTTCCAGAGCAGTGAGCTGGTGAGCTGGGCAGACGGGGGCCAGCACAGCAGCATCCACCCAGCCTGAGGCTCAAGCTGCCCTTACCACCCCATCCCCCACGCAGGACCAACTACCTCCGTCAGCAAGAACCCAAGCCCACATCCAAACCTGCCTGTCCCAAACCACTTACTTCCCTGTTCACCTCTGCCCCACCCCAGCCCAGAGGAGTTTGAGCCACCAACTTCAGTGCCTTTCTGTACCCCAAGCCAGCACAAGATTGGACCAATCCTTTTTGCACCAAAGTGCCGGACAACCTTTGTGGTGGGGGGGGGTCTTCACATTATCATAACCTCTCCTCTAAAGGGGAGGCATTAAAATTCACTGTGCCCAGCACATGGGTGGTACACTAATTATGACTTCCCCCAGCTCTGAGGTAGAAATGACGCCTTTATGCAAGTTGTAAGGAGTTGAACAGTAAAGAGGAAGTTTTGCACACCCAGTTCCATAACGTTGTTGGATGTATGAGCCAGGCAGGGGTCCAGAGACCACCAGCCTGCAATCCGGAGAACCCAAGCTAGGCGCGAGCCGGTGCTGTGATCCCGCCAAAGGAGAAGCTGCCTTCCCGGGGAAGGGGCAGAGAGGGGCCGGCGGGCTGAGGCCAACCAGCGCAGAAAGGGCCTGGCAGCCATTACTGTAGCGCTGGCGGCTCTGTCACGCCCCTGAAGCCGCTGGCCCGCGGGTGTGTTCAGCTCAGGAGCGGCCCTGCGTGTTTTTCCCCCGTGGCCGTCGCGGACCCCCGTCTTCCAACAGTGGTGCGGGCGGGGCGCCCCGTCCTGGGTTCGCGGCATAGCCCCGCCCGGGCCCCCACGCGGAACAGAAGTAACGGACCCttttttttttgtttttgtttttgaaacggagtgtcgctctgtcgcccaggatagagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagatggaactacaggcacccgccacaatgcccggctaatttttgtatttttagtaaagagggggtttcgccatgttgtccaggatggtctcgaactcctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgttgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccCCGGACCCTTCTTTATTGGCCTCAAAACGGGTCATTTTGGGAAGCGGCGCGGGGCTGGCCGCGCTTCCCTGGGCCCCGGCCCTCCCCATGGTGTTTACGGGGAGGCGAACGGGGAGCCCAGAGGCTGCGAGCCTGGCCTGGACCCAGGAGCCAGGGGTATCCCACAAGTCCTGGAGGCTCTGAACGCGGCGCTGACGCCGAATACCTGTGAAAAAGACTCGGGGAGGAGACCCGCAGACCGCCGAGCTTCTGCCGCGGGAACCGCGCCCCCGGCCCCGCAATGCGCCTGCGCCTCGCGCGCCGACTTCCAGTCCCAGCAggccgcgggcgggggcggggccTCCGGGGAGAATTCGGGGGAGGGGCGGGGCCTCCGGGAAGCAATCAGGGCAGGGGCGGGGCGTCCGGGGAGTGGGGCGGGGCTCCCGGTTCCAGGCGAGTTCGCAGCTGCGCGCCGGGTCCTGGAGGCCGAGGCCGCTCCCGCCCGTTGTCCCCGCAGTCCCCGACGGGAGCGCCATGGCCCAGCCGCCGCCCGACGTGGAGGGGGACGACTGTCTCCCCGCGTACCGCCACCTCTTCTGCCCGGACCTGCTGCGGTGAGCGGGGCCTGGGAAGCGAGCGCAGCCTTGGTGCGGGGTCCGGTCCGCGGGCGCCGGCGCCCCCACGTGGTCCCCGAGGGCTCGCGTGTTAGGAAACCTGTCTTGCCTGGCTCCTTtctttcttttttctttctttttttttttttgagacggaatctcgctgtgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacgatctccgctcactgcaaactctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcccggctaatttttatttttagtagagagggggtgtcaccgtgttggtcaggctcttttcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccacccgcctcggcttcccaaagtgctgggatttacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccCAACCTGGCCTCTTTCTTAACAGAAAATTTTAGGTTGAAATCATTTTTCCGGAAGACCCAGAAGGCCCAGGAATGCCAGGTTTTGCCCAGCAGCTCTTCATTTTCCTGCAAACGCCTTGGTGTTCACAAGAGAAGGCAGCCCGGGCAAAGGTCGATCCTCCCCGGTCACCTGCCCTCACTCGGCTAATGGGCGGATCCTTTTTTTTTTTTCCTTTTCTTTTTTTCAATTGGCAACATTTTCAAGTTTCTATTAAAATTTTGATCTTTTgccaggagcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagctctttgggaggccgaagcgggtagatcaccagaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctgctaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggtgtggtggcgcacacctgtaatcccaactacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaactcgggaggtggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcgcaccattgcactgggcaacaagagtgaaactccatctcaaaaaaagaaaacaaGTTTTAAATTATGTTCTCCAAGGACAGGTATTGACAATTCTCTCTGAGTGTTCTGCAGGAAAAAAAAAAAGttttttttcgaaacggagtctcattctgggttgaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccaattctcctgcttcagcctcagtgcgcccaagtgggactataggcacacaataccacgctgggctaattgtatttctagtagaggtgagtgtcaccatgttggtcaggctggtctggaactcctgacctcagatgatccacctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggatgacaggagtgagacgctgcacctggccCAAAATTAATCTTTAATAATTAAGAATAGGAAAGGCAACTTGGAGATCAGCAAAAGTTTGCCATCCATCTGGTACAGTTTGTGCCAGTCATACCGATCAGTACACATTTAATGCGTACAAGAAAATCTCTAATAAATAAAAAAGCCATATTATCCCGACGTAGCTTGCTGAATCTCAGGTATCATATTTGATATTAGTGCCATGCAGGGCTTAGGAGAGAGGAAATTATAACCTCTATCTTGTTTAAGCCAGGGTATTTTTCTCTCTTGTATCTACTTCTGTCCATTTCTGTCAAAAGACACAGAAATACCCTTTCCCCCACTGCACTTTGCAAGTTTGTGTCAGCACAagttcaggaccagcctgagcaacaaaacgatacccctctctagaaaaactagatgaaaaattagctgggcactctggcatgcacctgtagtcccagctactggggaggctgaagcaggaggatccttctagcccaagaggtcaaggcggcagtgagccgtgatggtgccactgcactccaacctggatgacgtagcaagaacctgtctcaaaataaataaaTAggcccggtgtggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggtggatcacaaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaacctcatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcaggtgcctgtagtcccagctactctggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacctgggaggaggagtttgcagtgagcctagatcatgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccatctcaaaaaaaataaaaaataaataaataaattaaataaaATACTATAATTTTATGAAttttcattttatttatttatttattttttaagaccatgtttcgctcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcgcaattttggctcaccacaacctccgcctcctgggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcatgcaccaccacacccggctaattttttatatttttagtagagacggggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtctcgaactcccgacctcaggtgatccgcccgccttggcctcctaaagtgctgtgattagaggtgtgagccaaggcacctggccGAATTTTCATTTTAAATCATTGCCGTATAGCAATATGGGAGGTGTATTTTAACAGGGCTCTTTTATTTTTTATTTAtttttattttattttatttatacatattttttgagacggagtcttgctcttttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatctcggctcactgcaacatctgcctcccgggttcaagctattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctaggactacaggcacccaccaccacgcccagctgatttttgtatttttagtagagacgaggttttaccatattgtccaagctggtctcgatctcctgaccttgtggcccacccaccttggccttccaaagtgctgggagccaccggcccggccCAATAGGGCTCTTTTAAAAGAGCCTCCTTTTTTATTCTCAGGGACAAAGTGGCCTTCATCACAGGAGGCGGCTCTGGGATTGGGTTCCGGATTGCTGAGATTTTCATGCGGTGAGACTGCTCTGTGTCCCTTCCCTGCTCCTCGCTTCTCCCTGCCCGGGCCCTGCTGGATGCCCGACCCCTGGAAAGATGTTGGTGGGAGGTAGATGTCCCCTGCTCACCTACCCGACAGGATCCAGGTGCCTGCCAGAGGGACTGGGGAGCGGTCGAGGATTGCCCTGGGGGGAGTCAGGACTTCAAGGCCCCTACAGGTCAGTGGAGATTGTGTGGCTCTGGTCTGGGGCCTGCTGGGACCTCGAGAGTCAGGGCTGTGTCGGGCCCCAGTGCTGGCGCCCTGCAGAGCACATTTTCTCCTGGGACACAATTCTGTGGCTTCAGGCCAGGGTCAGCAACTTATCCCACCTGACAGTGGCTAGAGTTAGGCTGGGGTGGGGGAAAGGGACCCTTCCTCAGTTCCCCTGAGGCCCCTGCTTTTCAGACCAAAAAGGTGAGTCCCACAGGAAGAGATATGGCCTTTCCACTGGTGGCTTTGTGCTCAGGGCATCTGAGGACCAGATGGGACATTGCAGCTCCAGTGGGACCTGCCTAGCAGGGGTAGCTACCTTTATGGTTATTGTGGGCaagcaacccccgaaccagaagagccgagaaaccaaagaacaaggcagacagatcccgtttgtctgtgtcaggtgattttaccagggaatttgtgggcagaagcgtagtcttgggtggctgtgagacgggcgtctccatgctgttacccccaggcccagggcttctataccacagggaaaggggtcctgcttcagagggagtgtgtaggaatttgtttaggataacatcaaggtggttttgacctaaaggcaggacttctttgtgctctttcgcaagaacagtagataagctggaaatcctagcggcattcctggaaccagggttcatagaggccaacgtggtggattcgcatccaCGTGGTCAGGAAGGGGAGCAGGGAGCACCCCGCTTCAGAACAGTCCTCCACGCCAGCCCCACAGGGAGAAGGGGGTGGAGAATGTGGGCCCAGCAGGCCCCAGGCAGATGTGTGGGCTGGGCGTCTGTGGCTCACAGCTGTCTCTGTACCTGGTGTTTGGGGCAGGACCCGCAGGCCTGTGCGGTGGGATGTCCCATGCCAGAAACCCCGGGGTGGGCACCACCTGAGGTCCCTCCAGAGTACCTCAGTCCTGTTCACGCCCCTGTGCCCTCTGCCAGCTGGGCCTTCAGCCTGGACTGGTACTTCCGCCTGAGAGACTCCTGCTCAGGAGCTGGGCAGATGCCCCGGGAGTGCCCCTCGCCCACACTGCCCTCACACCTGCTTCTGGTTTTGCAGGCACGGCTGCCATACGGTGATTGCCAGTAGGAGCCTGCCGCGAGTGCTGACGGTGAGAGGGCCTCTCCCATGGTCCCCTGTTCGGGTGGCTGTGGGGGGGCTGGGGCTGGGCCTGGGCCAGGAGAGTCCAGAGGCTATGGGGATGTTGGCACCAAAACtttttttttctgagacgggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctgaagtgtggtggtgcgatctcggctcactgcagcctccacctcccaggatcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctccggagtagctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccacgcctggctaatttttgcatttttttggtagagatgggttttcaccacgttgaccaggctggtctcgaattcctgacctcaggtgatccgcccacctcagcctcccaaagtgccaggattacaggtgtgaaccactgtgcccggccGGcacctcagcctcccaaagtgccaggattacaggtgtgaatcactgtgcccggccGGcacctcagcctcccaaagtgccaggattacaggtgtgaaccactgtgcccagccGGCACCAAAACTTGCACCTATCCTAAATATGGAGCTTCAGTGTAAGTGGCCTCCCAGAGACATCTTTGACTTTTTAAAAAATCTAGTTATTGGGTTCTGGGAGGGACCTTCCTGTTTGGGGGTAATGTGGCCCCAAGAAAGACCTCTGGGCTCACCTGGGTTATTTAGGTGGTCCGTGCGTCCCACCTACTGGAGCCCTCGACCTGGGAGGAGAGTCTCACCTGTGCCACCTCTGGTCTGCAGCAGGGGCAGGACATGGGTGACAGTGGCCTGGAGGGCGACGCAGAGGGAGGATTCTAGGACAGGTGGCAGGTGGGGGGAGAGCGTGGCAGGTTCCCACAAACATCCACTGGGGTCGTGGGCACTTGCAGGCTGTGCTTCCCCAGAGTGGGGTCCAGCAGCAAACCCAGGGTCCCCGAGGAACCCGGAAGCATCGTCCTCTGCAGATTCCAAAGGCCTTTTCTCCAGGCCGAGGCTGCAGGGCTGCTGTCTGCCTCTTTACCTGGCTTCTAGGCCGCCAGGAAGCTGGCTGGGGCCACCGGCCGGCGCTGCCTCCCTCTCTCTATGGACGTCCGAGCGCCCCCAGCTGTCATGGCCGCCGTGGACCAGGCTCTGAAGGAGTTTGGCAGAATCGACATTCTCATTAACTGTGAGTCGGTGCTGAGTGAGGTTGGTGGCTTCTCACAGGTTGGTGGTACCATTTGGAGGCCCTAGAACTCTGGTCATGGGGTGGGGACCATGCCAGGGAACCTAGCTGCCTGTGCTGGGGTGGGCTGCACCCCATCCAGGTACCTGAGGCCAAGACTCAGGCTCCGGCCccctgtctccggccccatctccggccccctgtctccgggcccctgtctccgggcctctgtctccgggctctgtctccgggcctctgtcttcggccgcatctccggccccctgtctctgggcctctgtctccgggcgtctctctccggccccatctccggccccctgtctccgggcctctgtctccggccccatctccggccccctgtctccgggcccctgtctccaggcctctgtctccggccccctgtctccgggcccctgtctccgggcctctgtctccggccccctgtctccgggcccctgtctccgggcctctgtctccggccctctgtctccgggcccctgtctccgggcccctgtctcCAGCCCCCTGTCTCCGGACCTCTGTCTCCGGGCCCCTGTCTCCGGGCctctgtctccggccccctgtctccgggcctctgtctccgggcctctgtctccggccccctgtctccggccccctgtctccgggcctctgtctccgggcctctgtctccggccccctgtctctgggcctctgtctccggccccatctccggccccctgtctccgggcttctgtctctggccctctgtctctggccctctgtctcCAGGCCTTTGTGTCCCGCCTTCTGTCTCTGGCCCTCTGTCTCCGGCCTGACTCCGCTTCTCTGGGTGGCAGCAGGTCAGCACAGCTGCAGCCCAAGTGGACGCCATGAACACAGCTCAATGGTAGAGTCGGGTGCCCTTGTGTCCTGAAATTCCGTCTTTAAAAAAAAAAGTAATAGCCttttttttttttttagacagcatctcactctgtcacccaggctggtgtgatcatggcttactgcagcctccaccttctgggctcaagccatcctcctgccccagcctcctgaggagctgggactacagacgtgtgccatcacgcctggctaatttttatattttttattttttgtagagacagggtcttagtgtgtgttgctcaggccagtctcaaactcctaggctcaagcaatcttcctgccttggcctcccaaaatgctgggattacaagcaagagtcatcAATAAAATAGAAGCTAGCCTGGCCTAGCtttttttttttttttagagggagtttcgctcttgttgcccaggctggagtaccatggtacaatctcagcttacagcaccctccgcctcccgggttcaagcaattctcccgtctcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcgcccgctaccacacctggctaatttttgtatttttaatagagatggggtttcatcatattgtttagactggtctcgaactcttgatctcaggtgatccgcccgccttggcttccgaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccgccgcgcctggccCCCAGCttttatttttatttctttattttttatttttattgatttttatttttattttttgagagagtcttgctgtgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcaatcttggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcatgccattctcctgcctcagtcccccagtagctgggactacaggtgcctgccaccacgcctggctaactttttgtatttttactagagatggggtttcaccatgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccacgcctggccgatttttttttttaaatcacagttttaggtttatagaataattaatagtatatggaattccatactcccacctacagttttccctgttaacatcttgcgtttgttacaattgatgaaccaacactggtTTCACTCTGCAGAAATTCCCTTTTAAAAACATCCTGtgtattagtttcctgggctaacagagtactacgacctgtgtgggtaaaacaaccgaaatataatctcccagttctggaggccagaacgtccaaggggaaggcgtcggcagagctatgctctctgaaggccccaggggagagcctcttcctgccttctgcgtggcttcgggtactgccatagcccttggccctcccgggctcggagaccgtcgctgcactgtctgccactgtcttcccgtggcgtgtgtctgtgtgtcctcttcccttgttataaggatgctggtcattggatttagggctcaccctaattcgttgtgacttcagtgtaattcgattatctctgcaacccaccccatttccaaacaaggccacagtcgcaggtacggagccagggcttcagcatgtcttctcttctcggggacacagtgcagccAGGACGCCCGTCTTGCTCTGGTCATTTTGGAATTTATCCTAGGGCATGGGTCTCCTCCCTGTGCCACAGGGCACCTGGGCTCCCTCCTGCACCCTCCGCTCTGCCCACCTGGCCACCACCCACTTGGCATCCCTCTCCCCAGGCTCCAGCAGCTCCTGCGGTCTCCCATTCTGCAGGTGCGGCCGGGAACTTCCTGTGCCCCGCTGGCGCCTTGTCCTTCAACGCCTTCAAGACCGTGATGGACATCGATACCAGCGGCACCTTCAATGTGTCTCGTGTGCTCTATGAGAAGTTCTTCCGGGTGGGTGCCTCGTGCGCTCTGTGAGAAGTTCTTCCGGGTGGGTGCCTCGTGCGCTCTGTGAGAAGTTCTTCCGGGTGGGTGCCTTGTGCGCTCTGTGAGAAGTTCTTCCGGGTGGGTGTACTCCCAGCGGGGGCCTCCCCCTGACGGCCGCCCGCTCCCTGCCCTGGGCCTCCCCATGACGGCCGCCCGCTCCCTGCCCTGGGCCTCCCCCTGACGGCCGCCCGCTCCCTGCCCCGGGCCTCCCCCTGACAGCCACCCGCTCACTGTCCTGTGACCTCCCCCGACACCCGCCCGCTCACTGCCCCGGGCCTTGTGTGTTGCAGGACCACGGAGGGGTGATCGTGAACATCACTGCCACCCTGGGGAACCGGGGGCAGGCGCTCCAGGTGCATGCAGGCTCCGCCAAGGCCGCTGTGGGTATGACCACCCCCCCCCGCCCAGGTTTGCCCACGTGGGTCCCCAATGGGCCGTCTGCTTCCATCCCAGGAGGCCAGCAGTCTCCACTTGAAGCTGAGCCCAGCTGCAGGCAGCGAGACCTGGCCTTGGCCCTGCGCCCTCGCAGAGGGCAGAGCGGCCCTTTCATATCCAACTTTCTTCTGTGCAGACGCGATGACGCGGCACTTGGCTGTGGAGTGGGGTCCCCAAAACATCCGCGTCAACAGCCTCGCCCCTGGCCCCATCAGTGGCACAGAGGGGCTCCGGCGACTGGGTAAGGCTCTCAGGGAGCCCAGGCCTCCCACAGATCCTCTCCTGGGGCACAGGGTGCCCATGAAGCTTCCAGAACCTTGGCAGGGTGTATGTTGAAAAGCCCTGTGCTGGTTCCATGGTGGCAACTATGTTCTGTGCCTGGCCTGATCCTGCTCCATGCTAGGCCTTGGTGACACTGACTGTGTCCTTGCTGTTCCCAGATGCCTCTCAGGGAATGAGCTGGGGGAGAGGGGAGGGTGCTGGGTCTTGGGGCTCACGGGGCCTGAGCCTTCTGCTGCCCTCCAGGTGGCCCTCAGGCCAGCCTGAGCACCAAGGTCACTGCCAGCCCGCTGCAGAGGCTGGGGAACAAGACCGAGATCGCCCACAGCGTGCTCTACCTGGCCAGCCCTCTGGCTTCCTACGTGACGGGGGCCGTGCTGGTGGCCGATGGCGGGGCATGGTTGACGTTCCCAAACGGTGTCAAAGGGCTGCCGGATTTCGCATCCTTCTCTGCTAAGCTCTAGGTGAGGTACTGCTCCCGCTTCTTGGGGTCATCTGTGTCCTTGGACGCTGGTCACTGCATGGGCAGGTCTCTGCGGGACCCACGGGGCTGGCGTCTCCTTTGTCCCCATCCTCCCGGCCCCTGCGCCAGCCTGCCCACACATGGGTGCTGCCCAGTGGGGCTGAGCAGGAGGCGGGCGCTGGTGTACTTGCTCTTCTGTAGCGGCCTCGGCCTCTGCCGGCATTTCTGGCAGGTGCTGGGTGGCCGAGGCAGCCGAGGTGTTTTAGGGGGAAGCCGTCCTCAGCCGGCTACTAAGTTCTGAAACTCCTGCAGGAATCTTCCGGCCGCTGCTTCCTGCCGCCTCACTCAGCCAGGTGGAGAGCACCAATCTGAACCAGCAATGCCTGCAGCCCAGCCCCTCCTCTGAACACTCAGCTATTACTGCGCTTTCCCTCCCCACGGCCCCAACTCCAGGGCAGGAGCAACTGGACAGTGGGCCTGGCCCGTGGAGCTGCCACGCAGGTGCCTGAGGGCCAGGTGCCACGCAGGTGTCTGAGGACCAGGTGCCACGCAGGTGGTGGGGGTACAGACAAGATGCTGGGATGTCCCCTGCCCCATGGTCAAGGGTGTCCTGCCTGCCTGGGTCCAGGGCCTGAGGGAGCCACATGGATCCCGAGACTTGTGTTCTCTTGGCTGAAAACACTGAGGTGCTCCCATCTGTGCGTGGCCCATGAGCTGGGATGGTCCTCCAGCTGCCCACAAGGTCCGCCCCTCTGTCTCTGCACCACCTGTTTGCATAAACACACTTTGCTACAATCTTGCTAGTGCGTTTTCTTAAAAGATAATCTATTTACTGTAAAAATAAATTGGACTTTGCAAAAGCTTTTAGAAGGAAAAGAAAGAGGATTAAAGAGAATTGCTGGTGATCCTATCGTTTAGGGGTTGTGTTTCCTTTCTGTCTTTTCTGTGATGTTTACTTATTATTAGTAGTAGttttgttttctttcttttttttttttttttgagacggcgtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagagcagtggcgcagtctcggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacgccgttctcctgccgcagcctccggagtagctgggactacaggtgcccaccaccacgcctggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagatgggttttcaccttgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcatgatctgcccgctttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccactgcacctggctTTATTTTTTATTTTTAAttttaatttttatttttttattttttgagatggagtctcgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatcttggctcactgcaagctccacctcccgggttcacgctattctcctgcctcagcctccctagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgcccccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccataatagccaggatggtctcaatctcctgaccttgtgatccgcctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcatctggccTAttattttttttgagagtgtttcgctcttgttgcccaggcgggagtgcagtggtgcgatctcagctcactgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcttctcgagtagctgggattacaggcgcccgccaccatgaccggctaattttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttagcccaggctggtcttgaactcccaacctcaggtgatccgcccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggatcacaggcgtgagccaccacgccaggccTTCTGTGACGTTTAGAACACTCTTCCTGCCTCATGCTGGAAGCCCCAGTCTACAGGCAGGGTGCTGCTCTCTTGGCAGAGGCCGCGTGCTCAGATGCAGCCGACACTGAATGTTGGGCCCAGGACCAGCCAGGCCACTGGTTGCCTCTCTCCTGGGTTTGGTCACTGCCACAGCTTTCCTCCTCTGTCGACATGGCCCCCAGCCCTGCTGCACGTGGGAGGTGCTGAGCAGCAGGAGGCTGGAGGGAGGTGTGTGGCTGTGCCCACCAGGGCCCCCATGGCTGCCCTCACAGGAGGGGAGCAGCTCCCATCAGGTATGCCCCTCAGCCCTGCGGTCCCCACTCTGTTCCTCCGAGCTCCCAGCTCACTGTCACACCAGACCCTGAATGTATTCAGGCTTTTACTTCCTGACAAGGAGGAAAAAAGAtttgttttttgttttgttttgtttttgtcagagacagggtctggctctgtcagccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaaacataactcactgcaccctccaaactcctgggctaaagcgatcctcccacctcagcctcctgggtacctgggaccacaggcacacaccgccatgcctggatgttttttgtattttttgtagagacaaggtcttgccatgttgcccaggctggtcttgttttttttttttttttttgagatggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcgccatctcagctcactgcaccctctgcctcctgggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggcctacaggtgcatgccaccacacccagctaattttttgtattttactagagacgaggtttcacagtgttgcccaggctggtctcaaactcctgagctcaggcaatccacctacctcgtcctcctaaagtgctggaattacaggcgtaagccaccacgcccggctgcccaggctggtcttgaactcctggcctcgtgtgatctgcccgcctcaggactgcaggcgtgagccacggcgcctggccGAGGTGGAGAGAAGATCTGTATATTGTAGTTGACTCCTGCCCCGTTTGGAAAATACAGTGTGGAGCTTATAACTGCTGAGTTGGCTTTTTAGGTGGCTGAGGGTTGGCCTCACCTTATGAATGTGGCCACTCCCACAGCTGCCGTGGCCTGGGAGAGGGGCTGCTTCCAGAAAATGTGTCAGCAGACCATCCATTGTGGGTTCCTGACTGGCACCGACCAGCATGGCCACGACCCACACACACCCTGTGTGCTAAGTGCTCAGCGAATTCCTTCCAGTGACTGCATGGGCTTCGGGACCCCCTCTGGTGCCAGGGAACCTGGGGAACCTCAAAGGCAGATCCTGGGTCCCTCCACAGGCTCTGAGGGAGGGATGTGGTGGAGCTCAGCGAGGAAGCTGGGATGCGGGGCCCTGGGCCGGGAGTATCTTCCCTCCTTCCCTTCCCTCCACCAGCCTCTGTGAGCCTGGGCCTGCCCTGCTGCCTCCAGATCCCAGCCCCAGCAGCCGCCTCCACAAGTCGTGGCCCAGCCACTGAAGAGAGGGACAGCATTCCTTCTGCTGGCCTCACATCCACATTCCTGAGGAAAGATGCAAGTTCACCTTTGGGGCTAGAAATCTGGCTCTTGTGCAATGAACTGTGGTAGggccgggcatggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcaatttgggaggctgaggctggcaaaacacttgagcccaggagttcaagaccagcctgggcaacaaaatgagactccatcttaatgaataaataaataaataaataaataaataaataaataaTgccaggcatggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcattttgggaggccaagacgggtggatcaggagtttgagagcagcctggccaatacagtgaaacaatatagtgaaaccctctctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcactcgcctgtaatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcgggagaattgcttgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagctgagatggcaggactgcactccaccctgggtgacagagcaagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaattaaaaaaagccaggcatggtggttcaggcctgtaatcctagcactttggaaggtcaaggtcagtggatcacttgagcctagaattcaagagcagcctgggcaacatagcaagaccttgtctctataaaaataaataaataaaaacaaaaaccaggctgggcatggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaatgctttgggaggccaaggcgggcagatcacctgaggtcaggaatttgagaccagcctggccaacatggcgaaaaccccatctctactaaaaaaatataaaaattagctgggcatggtggcacgtgcctgtagtcccagctactcacgagaattgtttgaacccgggaggcagaggttgtggtgaacggagattgcaccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcgagactgtgtctcaaaataaataaatacaaaatagtgcgtcggccaggtgcggtggctcatgcctgtaatccaagcactttggaaggccgaggcgggcagatcacccgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctgacggaggcagaggttgcggtgagccaagatcacgccattgtactctagcctgggtgacaagagtgaaactccgtctcaaaaaataataataattaaaTAATTAAAAAATAAAGAATAAACAGTGGCTGAAGGTTGGCCTCACCTTATGAATGTGGCCACTCCAACAGACGCTGTGGGCTGGGAGAGAGGCTTCTTCTAGAAAATGTGTCAGCAGACCATCCATCACGGGTTTCTGGCTGGCACTGACCAGTGTTGCCATGACCCACACACACACCCTGCTACTAAGTTCTCAGTGAGTTCCCGAGTTCCTTCCAGTGACCGCATGGGTCTCAGGGCCGCTCTCTGGTGCCAGGGAACCTGGGAAACCTCAAAGGCAGCTGGGAGGTGCCAGACTGCACCTGACAGGTGTTTGTCCAAGCAAGAATGAGAAATATTCGCCAGAAATAAGAAGAATTACCTTTCAGCTCTTCGACCATCACGTGTAACTTGGAAAACTGTTACACAGGGAAGAGGAGAGTGATGAGAACTAGCCCTTCGCTGCTGCTTTGGAAAATGTAGAGGGGCTGAGAAACGAAGCTCTGCATAGCCTCTCCTGCTGGCTCCTCAGGGCCCCTCTGCAGGCTGCGGTTTGGCCTCAGGGAGCACTGAGGGTGCAGAACGGGGGCTCTGGAGGGCTCCAGGCCTGGTGGGAGCCAGGGCAGCCAGGCCATCCCAGGAAGACAGAGCAGGCACCGTAGCCTCATAGTGAGGTGTTAAAATAAGAAAACCATCAAAACTTGGGCTGAGTCAGGAGGAATTCAGTTGTGCCTTATACACTCATGTTCCATTTTTACTCTAAGACATGTACTTTACCAAATTTGAAGGTGAGAATACAAATTCTCCCCCACTGAATAAAATATCAGTAAACACAAGTGAGGCTCTGTGCTCTCAACTGCTGGAGGCCACAAGGGAGAGTGAGACCTGGTCCTAAAGGTGACTTCGCTCTAAGTTTATTTACTGAATATAAAATGTTAATGTAGTTTTCACAGTTGTCTggccaggtgcagtggctcatacctataattccagcacttttggaggccaaggcggtggatcacttgaggtcaggagttcgcgaccagcctgaccaacatggtgaaactccatctctactaacaatacaaaaattagtcgggcgtggtggtggacacctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggaggatcgcttgaacccaggaggcgtaggttgcagtgagccaagatcgcgccagtgcactccagcctgggcaacagagcgagactccatcccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTTGTCAGTTAAAAATAGTTTGCAGGCAGtttttgttgatagctttatggatacacagttgacacaaggcaaaccgcacataggtagagtgtgtaatttgatgaggctgatgcgtctacgtcgtgaagccctcagcactatccaggCTGCACGTGTACCTGgtaatccctccctctcacccatccctaccccttatttcccaagcgactgctgatttgctctctgttgctatttatgttttttatttttattttttgagatggagtctctgtcacccaggctggagtgccgtggtgtgatctcagctcactgaaatctctgcctcccaggttgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgtgtgccaccacgccagggtaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggttttgccatgttggccaggcgggtctcatattcctgacttcaagtgatgtgcctgcctcggcctcccgaagtgcggggattacagcggtgagccaccgcgcctgcctggtgtttgtattttctaggattttatgtaagtggagtcataaggtacgcactcttttttgtccggcttctctcactgaacctgattgctcccagagtcacctgtgatgtcgtgtgtgtcagtagtgaaatcctcttcagggttgagccgggctccgcgccgggtcctcctgggggttgagccgtgttccgcagtgtggatgtgccagtttgtttattcacctgctgatgagtacttgggttgcttgcaggtttgggctataacaagtaaagctgctatgaacatttgtacagaagtgggtgcatggacacgtactttcatttctcctaggtactaggagtggaatggctgggtcatataaacaatgtatatttagttttatttttttaatttttttttttgagatggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctagagtgcagtggcgcgatcttggctcactgcaacctccgcctcctgggttccagtgattctcctgccttagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcgtgcaccaccacgccccgctaagttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccactttggtcaggccggtctcaaactcctgacctcgtgatccacctgcctcagcctcccaaggtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggcctgtatatttagttatgtaaggtatttgccttattattcagccttaaaaaaaaggagacattgaggctaggcacggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagctgtttgagaggccaagacggggcggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctgaccaatatgatgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcgtggtagcaggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgagacaggagaatctcttgaacccaggaggcggaggtttcggtgagccgggatcacaccattgcattccagcccgggaaacgagcgaaactgccatttgtgacaacgtggatgaacctggaggacattatactaagtttttttttgagacagagtcttgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtagcgccaccttggctcactgcaacctctgccttccaggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggcacccaccaccacacctggctaattttttctatttttagtagagacagggtttcgctgtgttagccaggatggtcttgatctcctgacctcatgatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctaggattacaggtgtgagccacagcgcccagctGcacccagctaatttttgtagttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatattggccaggctggtcttgatctcctgacctcgtgatccacccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcacccggccTATGCTAAGTTTTTAAACGttttcttactttagagagggagttttgccccgttgcccaggctggagtgcagggctattcacaggcacaatcacagctcactacagcttcaaattactggactccagcattatgctaagtgaaataagccagtcagagaaagaagacttcatggtctcatttatatgtggaatccagaaaaacctctgggtcttaagagctcctcccacctcagtctcttgagtagccgggactacaggtgtgcaccaccacacctggctaatgtttttttgtttgttttttgaactcctgggcttaagtgatcctcctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgacccactgtgcccagTGGAAATGAATGTTATAGATATAGTCAAAGTTGTACTTCACCCTTTCTCTTCTGTCTGTCCTCTTGAATATAATTCTTttttctttctttctttttttttttttttttgagacagagtctcgctctgttacccaggctggagtgcaatggtgtgatctcagctcactgcaacctccgtctccggggttctagcaattctcctgcctcagcctccccagtagctgggattacaggcatgcgccaccatgcctggctaattttttgtatttttgtagagacaggtttcagtattttggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcaagtgatccaccccattggcctcccaaagttgggattacaggtgtgagccaccgcacacggccTCAATGTAATTCTCAAGTATGTTTAGGTATTTTTTACTACAAACGAAAGCATTTGAAAACAAGATAGGTCATTGATCATGTGTTTTTAAACTTAACAAAAATTggctaggcacgttggctcacgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggaagccaaggcgggcagatcacctgaggtcaggagttccagatcagcctggccgagatggtgcaaccccgtctctacgaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcgggcacctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggagatggaggctgccgtgagctgagaccgtgccactgcactccggcctgggcaacaagaacagaattctgtctaaaaaaataaatgaaaaaTGGTATTACATAGCATGTACTATCAATTGTGCAGATGTGGTGCACTCACTTAAACTGCTACACTTCACAACAGACAACAGGCTCCACTGAAGCCGTTCGGCTCTTCTTCCAGAGAAGTACAAATCCCCGAAGGAAACAAGGTCTTTCCATCTCCCTGCGGACATGTGCAGTTTCTCCGGCAGGTACTGGAAGGCGGATCCCACACTGGAGTATTCCGACCTTCAGCTGCACGACTGGTGCCAAATCCCCACTCCCTGGTGTCCCCAGACTTACTCTGATTGGTGTCAAGGGCTACACTCACAcattttcctggtgaccagtgaagatgagcatctttttcatgtgtttaccggccacctgaatttcctcttctggagctgcttattcatattctttcctcgtttttctatcgggttgctgttcgtttactgttttttgagaaattcttttgtgtattctagaaatgaatattttgtccattaaatccattctaactctctcttcccagtTGCTAccccaaaatttatatattggagtcctaacgccaacgggatggtatttggagatgaggtctttgggaggtataacttagggttagggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggatgccgaggcgggtggatcatgagctcaggagatcgagaccatcctggttaacacggtgaaaccccggctctagtaaaaatacaaaacaattagccaggcatggtggcgggtgcctgtggtcccagctactggggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaatccgggaggcagagattgcagtgagctgagatggcgccattgcacttcagcctggacgacagagcaagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaataataataataataattagggttagatacggtcagcaaggtggggccctcacgatgggaacagtgcccttattagaagagacAGtctttttttttcttttttctttttttgagacggagtttcactcttgctgcccaggctggagtgccatggcacaatctcgattcactgcaacctccgcctcccaggttctagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcatgcaccaccatgcctggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatggcaagcctggtcttgaactcctgacctcaggtaatccacccgcatcggtctcccagagtgctgggattacaggcgtgaggcaccgtgcccagccttatttttattttattgttttccttgagatggagtttccctcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggtgggatcttggctcactgcaacctccacctcccgggttcaagtattctcctgcctcagcctcccaggtagctgggattacaggacacgccaccacgctcagctagtttttgtatttttagtagagacagggttttaccatgttggccaggctagtctcgaactcctgacctcaggttatccacccgccttggcctcctaaagtgttgggattacaggcgtgagccattacgcccgCCttttttttttttttgagatagtctcgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgtagtggctggatctcagctcattgcaacctctgcctcccaggctcaagtgattaccctgttcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacacgcacccgccaccgcccccggataattttttttctttttttttgagacagagtctcactccatcacccaggctgcagtacagtggtgtgatcttgactcactgcaacctccacctcccgggttcaagcaattctttgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggtgcccgccaccacggccggctaatatatacatatattttttaggtggagtctcgctctgtcgccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatcttcgctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctccctcaggctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgggtgccaccacacccggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacagggtttcaccatgtttgccaggatgttttcgatctcttgaccttgtgatccgcccaccttgcctcccaaagtgctgggattataggctgagcaaccgcgcccggcctaaattttctattttttagtagatacggggtttcaccatcttggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcgtgatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctggaattacaggcatgagctcccacgcccagccCAAAAGAGACAATCTTTCTCCAACATGTGAGGACAGAGTGAGAAGATGGAGgctatgctttgaatgtttataccctccaaaacgcatgttgaggccaagtgtggtgactcatgccaataatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggcggatcacttgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcttgaccaacatggtgaaaccccggtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccggccttggtggcatacgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggtaggggaatcacttgaacccgggaggcggaggttgcagtgaccagagatcgcgccattgcactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagactccatatcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagataataaggtgctgcagatctgtggtctcagctactggagaggctgaggtgggaggatctctcttctatttttattttttattttggagacggagtcttgctctatcatccaggctggagtgcaatggtgcaatcttggctcgctgcaagctctgcctcccgggttcacgcctttctcctgcctcagcctcccaaatagctgggactacaggtgcctgccaccacacctggctaatttttgtttttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctccattttctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcagcctcccacagtcctgggattacaggcatgagctaccacacctggcctaaggtgggaggatctcttgagcctaggaggttgaggctgccgtgagctatggtcgcaccactgcactgcagcctgggcaacagagcaaaaccctgtctcGGGGaaaaaaaagaaaagaaaagaaaagaaGGAACTGCTACAGCCCACAGCCTACAAAGGGGACACAGATAGTAGCTCTGAACAGCAGACGGATAGACGGGAACTTGTCCCTTTAGTCTTTCATGAACAGCCTCTAACTGGTCCAGGCAGGGAGGTGCAGGCTTCCAGGCTGTGGTTCCATGGAGGACACCAGCCGGGCACGCAATGGACGTTTTCCAGCCCTAGCACAGACAGAGCGTGCGGGCCCCTGCTCTCAGAAAGCCAGCCTTCTGCCTCTGGCAGCGCCGGCACATAAAAGCAGAGGGAGCCTGCTGTCTCTGCCTCGCCCACACTAACACCCCTATTTAGAAAGGTTGACACATCACTATCACTGCTTCTGAAAATTTTATCCGGCCGAAGGCATCAGCCCAAATTTGAATTCTTGCCAAAGCTGCTGGTGATTTCGTTCTTTGAATGCAGTATCTTCCTCATGAACACGTACAGCTCTTACAAGAAAATGAGAATACGGTTTGGGGAGGAGGATCCCTCACATTCCTTTTCCTAATGCCAGCCTCGCGAAGTCTGGTCCCATGTACCCTGGGATTCTGCCACGGAAGATGACTCACTTAATTAACACGCTGCTCCTGACCGTACACTTGGAAGCAGAGGTTCCGTTCCTTTGGTTCTTGCCAAAGCTGCTTACGAAACCATATCTTGTGTTGGTGCCCATGGTGTGTAAAAATACAAGTTCATCATTTCCCTGATACAAATTATGACAGGCTAAATTTAGTGCCTCACCTGTCCTAACTAGCTTTCCCACCATCATGCCTGCCGCCGGGCTGTGGTCCTTTCTGAGGTCCCGTGTCCCTCTGAGGACAGGGACACCCAGACACAGAGGTCAGTTGTCAGACGCGGCCACGGTGCTCGGGAGGCTGGCTGCAGACGGGCGATTCACCCTGGGTGTCTTCTTGAGTCTtattttttgtagagacgaggtctcgctttggtgctcaggctggtctcaatctcctgggcgcaagcgatcctcccgcttgggcGTGGGCCAGCGCGCCCGTCCCAACGCTGGGAGTCCCGGAGATCTTGGTCACAGGCTTAAGGGAAAGGCCTAGCGCGTGGCCGCGCGTGCCTCTGGTTTCAAGGGACATGGACTGCGTGTCTGGGGCCCCTCCGCACTCCGTGTCAGACCCTGCGTCCCCCGGGTCCGCGCGGGACCCGGGCAGGGCGTCGCCCTCTGCGGCGTCTGCGCCCCGCGAACCCTGGGGCACCTGCAACCCCTGGGCCGCGGAGCCAGGCGTGCGCCGCCTCCTGGTCTCATCAACGTGAGAACGCTTTACCCCCGAAGAGCTCAGCTCCTAGGGGGCTATGTCCCTTTGCGTCTCTCGCTCGCCAGGCGGTGCCGTTTACTCGACCGCACCATGCGTGGGTAGCGGTCGCGCCCGCTGGTAGCTGTGCGGCGGGAACACGTTCTAAGTAAGGCCTGACTCCGCGCGCCTCTTGCCAGGGACGTCACGTCACGCCTCCACTCGCAGCCTCGGAGCACCCCCGCGTCCCGCGCCCGAAGCTCGGGACCCCCGCTCTGGCGAAACGAGGAATATGACATACAGCAAAACACCCCTTCGCGGCCGCTGCACTGCCGCGACACACCCGGCGCCTGCCTCTACAGCAAGCCGGCGAGGGGCTGGGACCCCGCCGGGACGTGCTGACGTCAGGCCCGAcggggggcggggcctgggcggcggcggcgTTAGTTCTCCGGGTACCTCAGGCGCCTCAGCCTCCTTAGTCTCCTCATCCTGCTTCACAGGCTCCGCGGCCTCCGGCCTCCTCGGCCCCCGTCCCCCGGCCTCCTCGGCCCCCGTCCCCCGCCATCCGCCGCCCGGATCCTCGCCGCCCTCCCTAggccgccccgccgccatgggcctgcgcccgccgcgccgccgggccgAGGGCAGCTGAGGCGCGGTGCGAAGATGGGCGAGGACAGAGCAGGGCCCGAGCGCCAGCCCCAGCAgcccgggcgccccgcgcgcgcccgcccgcgccgccgaggggatgcccgcgcccgccgccgcgcccTGAGCGCCTTTGTCTGCCGCCCGCGCCCTTCCGCACCACTAGCCTCTCGGGAGCATGGCGTcggccccgccggcctcgcccccgggctcggagccgccggggcccgacccggagccgggcgggccggacgggccgggggcggcACAACTGGCTCCGGGCCCTGCGGAGCTACGCCTCGGAGCGCCCGTCGGCGGCCCCGACCCGCAGTCCCCGGGCCTGGATGAGCCTGCGCCCGGGGCCGCTGCAGATGGCGGGGCGCGTTGGAgcgccgggccggccccggggctggagggaggcccgcgagaccccgggccgtccgccccgccgccgcgctccggcccgcgggggcAGCTTGCGAGCCCCGACGCCCCGGGCCCAGGGCCGCGCTCCGAAGCGCCGCTTCCAGAACTCGACCCGTTGTTCTCCTGGACTGAGGAGCCCGAGGAGTGTGGCCCCGCGAGCTGCCCGGAGAGCGCGCCTTTCCGCTTGCAGGGGTCCAGCAGCAGCCACCGAGCGCGGGGCGAGGTCGACGTCTTCTCTCCCTTCCCCGCGCCCACGGCGGGCGAGCTGGCGCTGGAGCAAGGTCCCGGGTCCCCGCCGCAGCCCTCGGACCTCAGCCAGACCCACCCCCTTCCGAGCGAGCCCGTGGGGAGTCAGGAGGACGGCCCCCGCCTCCGAGCCGTGTTCGATGCCCTGGACGGGGATGGGGACGGTTTCGTCCGCATCGAGGACTTCATCCAGTTTGCTACGGTCTACGGGGCAGAGCAGGTACGGAGCGGCCCGGGCCGGGGCGTGGGAACTGGGCAGGTGCGCGCTGGCCGGCGGGGTTGATGTGGGACCGGTCGACGCTGCCCCTGGAGTCGGGAAAGGCACTGTCAAGACCTGACGGTCCTGCTTTTTCTGCTTATTCACCACTTCGGCCCTGGATTTCTGGTTGAATTGCGCTGGAGTCCCTCTTCCCTTCTTAAAAGGAGGTTCTATTCTGGGGAGTCAGTTTCTTCCCCTCCCCCCAGCGCCTCGTCAGCTGGATCTTACCGAGGTCAGCTCCTCGCCTGGGGACACCCCCCCAGGGGGCCTGATCGCCACCCCCCCAGGGTGCCTGATCGACGTGCCCCTGAATGAAGAAGTTCCCCGCGATTCCCCCACCCGAGGGCCCAGATACTGCTCGGCTGAATTCACCCAAGTTCTAGCCGCAGAGGCCAGGCTGCCCAGACGCCTTGAGATCCTACTGATAGACACCTATTTTGAGTACAATTACTTTACTGTGTGTGGTTGACATCTTTTCTACTTAGATTTCATCTTTTATTTGGGAGACAGTCAATGCTTGTAGAGAGTCCTGGAATTAAGAATTTTTACTTTGGTGCCTTTGGGGAGGAAGGCAATGAGCCTCGGAGCTTGTTGGCAAATGCAGAAGTCTAGCAGAACTCCGTTAGGGCCACGTCCACTCTCGTAGGAGAGGTGAAATGCGTGGACAGGCACTACGCACAGTACAGTGTGGAAGGGGTCCACGCGGTCCTCAGGGCACCTGCTCCTGGGGGAAAGGTGGGCCCCAAGATGCAGTTGTTCCTGTCTACCTCAGCACTTAATAAAGTTTAAGTGGAGATAACAGCAGGGCCGTGTGTGTTCTGCCAATAACCCGGTGGACATCAAATAATACCAGTGCTCACTTTTAAATATTTTACTTAGCAGGAAATCCCTAAGGTGCATCTGTCAATTTTTTGTATTTTGACTTCTCACACATGCAGACATCTGGTAAGTGGGTGTTCAAGTACATATGCATGTTTAAGCCAAGAGGTCTGTAAGAAAAGAGGTAAAATTGGCACACTGCTATTTAGGGTGTCAGTCATAACATTAAGAACCTTGATggtcgggcgcggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttaggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagattgagaccatcctggctaatatggtgaaaccccgtctccactaaaaaatacaaaaaaattagtcgggcgtggtggcgggcacctgtactcctagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagcggagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagacttcgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaacagcaacaaaacaaaaaaCACAGGGTCCTGATAAATCAGGGTTCCTTGCTGAGTTCACATTAAGAAGATGTGCAGACAGGTGCGTGCGGGGCAGCCTGCAATGCTCGCAAGCTTAGCTCCGGTTGGGATATTGTCAGGGTAGTTTTCCACCTACACTAATGGGCAGTGAAATATGTGACTGATACTTTCCTGTATGGTCAGCGTGGATGGTGGTTGCTGGTCCAGGTGTTTTGCTGCGTTTCCTTCTTGCCCCTGGGCTGGAGAGCACCTTGAGCTCCCTTGGTTGCTGTTGGCTACTGCGCTGTCTCTTCTCCCAAACATACTCTTGCTTCAGTACAGCAAAGAAGTTAGGAGAGTACCACATTTGCTCCTTGTTACCATAACCCAACTCTTGATAGAGAACTTCTGTGAGGCTCAGGATGTTTCcactggatcataccacagttctctgagatagtaggtaagcaggattcatccccactttacaggtaagaaactggaaacccagaaaggtcagatagctctcccaaggtctcacaggagtagaactaggtcttttggcccttagaccttagatgcctcttcttagATGTGGTGGCTCACAATATCCCTATTGTGATAATATCTTACTGACTTTCATACAATTCTTTTTATTTGAGAAACATCTTTTGTCATAACCTCCCTTAATGATCACAATGGGAAAAACTTTGTGTTGCTATTTGGGGCTGAGCTTTCTTGTCATCACAAAGTAGAAATGAGACAAAATTCTTCACTCTGAATTCCAAGAGCTCTTGATGAAATTCGAAGGTTGGGGGCAAGGGCTGGATGACTTGGGATTTGGTGAGGATGGGGAAGTGGAAGGGATCTCCTGTGGTATTACTCCTTGTCTGTTCTTCTAGACGGCTTAGGAAGAAGCAATGTTGGGTGTGATCTGAGTGCCTGGACTTGGGCCGGCTTCCTGGGATGGAGGAGAGCTCTTGATTTCTTAAAGCTAAGTTACTGTTTGGCAACAGATAATTTACAGGGTAAAGAAAGGTTGATTTTCATGTTATGTAACCCTGTAGCCATTGCTCAGTTTTAGcagtcttggttcatctgtaaactcaccactcactacccccagatgatttttgaagtgggttcctgacattatatcatttcttccataaatgcttcagtatatatttccaaaagataccgattcttttaAAGACATTAATGATTTTTTTAAAAACGCTAGGGAACAGTTCAGATTAACTGGATAACAGCAATAAAGGTCATAAGTTTTTGTACTTTCTACCTTGAGATTTCAAAATATTGAGCACATGAGAGACTCTTAGTCCAGTCACATTACTGTCCTTGATGATAACAACTAGATTATCTTAAtttttttttttttttgagatggagtctcgcctgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcaatggtgtgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcttcagcctcccgagtagctgggattaccggtgcccgtcaccacacctggctattttttgtatttttagtagagacggttttgccatgttggccaggctggtcttgaactcttgacctcaggtgatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccactgtgcccggccAAGTATCTTAATTTTTATCAAATTTTCAGAGGTAGCATATTGAGTATCTTCTATGTAATCTGTTTATGAAGGTAGCATTTTAAATTATTTAAATGGATTATCTGAATTTTTAATAGAAGCAGCTCCTGTTTATAATACAGATGGCTTTTGTGTCCCTGTTTCTTTAGCAATGTCATGGTGTGTTTGGATCTAATTACGTCATCTGGTGATAGATCAGGTGTAGTGTAATATAACACAGTGTTGTGTTAGCAGAAATCAGCACATGAAAGGAGCAAGTGGAGCTTTCTGGTTATATTTTTTTGAAACAGGAATTTATAGTCAGATGTGTCCAGGAATTAGGTATGAAGTTGGAATAGGTGATTTTTAAGGCTTCAACCATCTCTGGAGATTGACATGACCCCTTCATACTGAGAGGACTGATGCTTTTGTATTTACTGCCACCTATCATGAAGCAGAGATTGTAAAATAAATTCTAAGAGTGTTGTGAGAAAGGATTACTTTAATTTTGTTTTGTTTTTAAAGATTATAACTGTAATTTACATGTTATTTTTACAGTCACTTAAGCAGTTGCGTTTTAATAGCCACTGATTCTTTTCAGAGAATGTCCTTCAGTAACCTTGGTAGGCATTGTCTGTCTTCAGTACTTGCAGAAATAGGCTGCCGAAGGAAGTGTCGATGCTCAGATCTCCCTACGTTTTTTTATTCCTGCACCGCTAATGGTGGCAGTAGGAAGTTCCTAGGGACATTTGACTGCACCtttttgttcgtttgttttgagacaggatctcactctgtcacccagtctgaagtgcagtggcaagatctcagctcactgcaacctccacctcctgggctcaagcagtcctctcatcttagcctcctgagtagctgggactataggcaggcatgaccatgctccgctaatttAAAAAAATTggctgggtgcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcattttgggaggctgaggcgggcagatcatgaggtcaggagacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaCATTTTTAAAAATTAtttttgtagagatgaagtatagtatagtgatactgcccaggcatattattgaactcccaggctcaagcgaccgtcctcgggcctcagcctctcaaagttctgggattgcaggcatgagccgtagcgcccagcCTGGCATCGCCTTTTATTTGCCCTGTATCATTTCCAGTCTCTTAGCCTTGAATTTGAGTGAAAgtgtgtgtgaatgagagtgagcatgtgtgtgtgtgagcagttacatatgtgagctggtgtgtgtgtgtgtaatatgtgtgtgcggtgagatgtgtgggagcatgtgtctgcaggatcagggatgtgtgtatgtgggagtgggatatttgtgtgtaagtggcatattatgtatgtgtgtgAGCAGGTGAGTGTATGTATTCTGGGTCTACATGCTGACTGAATTGCTGAAAGGCAAATGAAGCTTGGGTTGTATaaaacagaaaatgaccaataatcccactatcctgagaaaaataacattcccattattttactacatttcttttcagactttttttttttttttgaaatagagtcttgctctcttgcccatgctggagtgcagtggcacaatctcagttcactgcaacctccaccacgtgggttcaagcgattgtcttgcctgagtctcctgagtagcttggactacaggcgtgcaacgcctggctaatttttatatttttagtagagacggggtttcgccgtgttgactaggctggtctcgaacaccagacctcaagtgatccacctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgttgggattacagatgtgagccaccgcacctggcccagaccttttttaacacagacatagacacacaggtgactgtctataaaagtacacaattgagatcatattgGGGTAGAAGCTAAAtttttttttttttttgagatggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatcttggctcgctgcaagctccgcctcccgggtttatgccattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgccacccctcccggctaatttttttgtatttttattagagatgaggtttcaccgtgttagccagtatggtcttgatctcctgaccgcatgatccgcccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggatgataggcatgagctatggcgcccagTGAAGCTAAATTATTTTTATAGATGTTCATTGTTTTAAAAGAAACTggcctggcgcggtaactcacacctgtcatcccaacactttgggaggccaaggcgggtggatcatctgagatcaggagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggtaggcgcctataatcccaggtacttcagaggtcgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacctgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagatcttgccattgcactccagcctggacgacaagggtgaaactgtctcgaaaaactaaaaagaaactaaaaCTAGTAGGTAAAATACTAGTAGATAAAATAAGAAAAATAAGGAGCCCTTGTAATCCCCCCATCCATTAATATCATTAAGAGataattaaatatttaatatgtaaattaaaatGTATGTAATACATACTTGATTATAGATAAATGTTATAATTTGCATGCATGTTGCTTTGAATCTGCTTTTTGACCTGGttttttttttttttttgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgacagggtctcgctctgtggcccaggctggagttcagtggtacgatctcggctcagtgcagtctctgcctcccgggttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagactccctcagccacttagctgggattacaggcgcctgccaccactccggctaaatttttgtatttttaatagagatggggttttgtcacgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcttgacctcgtgatccacccgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccattgcccctagccTGAGCTGtttctttttaattgatagaaatatttgtacatattcatgggatgggtacatgtggtattttgttacaggcatacactgtaatgatcaagttggggtgtctgtcacctccatatttatctttttttttttttttttttttttgagacatagtctctgtctcttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcagctcgctgcaagctctgcctcccgggttgatgccattctcctgcctcagcctcctgatagctgggattacaggtacatgccagcatgcccagctaatttttgtatttttactagagacagggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctggtgatccgcccacctgggcctcccaaagtactgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgctcattgcatatttctaaccattaaccgtgctctttaccctcctgatgcttcccagcctctgatatcaatcgctctattctctacctccattagatccacttttctagctcccacataagagtaaaaacgtgatatttgtctttctctgcctgtcttacttgacttcacataatgacctccatttccttccacgttgctgcaaatgacatgatttcatttttttacgtggccaaatagtactccaggccggatgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatctcagcactttggaaggccaaggcgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctagctaacacggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagctgggtgtggttgcgggcgcctgtagacccacctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacctgggaggtggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgtgccactgcactccagtctgggtgacagagcgagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagtactccattgtgtatctatattacattttctttatccattcaactgttgatggacacttagattgattccatatctttgctattgagaacagtgctgcagtaaacatggggtgcaggcatccctgtggtatatggatttcctttcctttggataaatctcagtagtgggattgctggattgtatagtagttgacctaaattttttgaaaTTGAAGGTCTCTGATATCAGATGTATATTTATTTATTTAAAAAtttctttattttttgagacagagttcactattgttggctaggctggagtgcaatggcacgattttaggtcactgcaaccttcgcctcctgggttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctccttagtagctgggattacaagcatgtgccaccatgctcggctaattttttgtatttttagtagaggcggggtttcgccatgttagcccaggctggtctcgcgctcctgacctcaagtgatctgcgtgccgcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaagcgtgagccactgcaccctgccAGATGTATACtttatttttttgatatagagtctcactctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcaatcactggtcactgcagccttgacctcccaggctcaggtggtcctcccatctcagcctcccaggtagctgggactacaggtacgtgttaccacacctgcctaatttttctattttttatagagacagggttttgccatgttgatctccaactcctgggctcaagtgatcttcccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctaggattacaagcatgagccactggcctggcAGATGTATACTTTAATGGAAACCTAAGGTTTACTTGTCCCCAGGAAGATTCAGAATTGTTAAGGATggccggacgcagtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaagccgaggtgggcagatcacttgatgtcaggagtttaagaccagctggccaacatggtaaaatctaaagtctactgtctactaaaaatacaagaattagaccaggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcaggtggatcacgaggtcaagagatcgagactagcctaaccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctacgaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtagtggcgggtgcctatagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaagctcagaggtggaggttgcagtgagtcgagatcttgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTTAAGGACTATTCTGGTTCCAGTTTAGGATCTAACATACAGGAAGAGTTTAGTTCTGTGTAGATGGTGCAGACAAGGTTGTTAAGGGCACCAGGCTTATGGATTGCTTCTCTTCCAAGCACTTATTTTGTTTAAATTCTGGAAACATTCAATGTAAACATTAGTTATATCAGACAAAAGGATTAGGCATCCACTTAAGTCTATTATGTAGCTCATAAAAGTGGTAATTATAAAGGCTCCAAATTTACTTAGATTAGCACTTCTAAGTTATTATGATAGAGTGATGTACTAAATATACATCACACTTACAACCAGGTAGAATTGAAAGAAGTTTTGAAGAAATATTAAAAGTGCTTTTAGTTTTGTGTTGGGAGATATGAGTGTGTAGGAGAGGGCGTATGGTGGGAAGGGTTTTATTTGAGGTATTGGCTATATTTCCTGTTGTGTTACTGATTTTGATTATTTTGAAAAGTAGTGCCTTTGCACATAGCATAGAGTTCAAACAGTACAGAAGGGAATCTAGTAAAAAAAATCATTACAGTTGGTAGAAATAAAAAAATTTAAGTAAACCCTAAAGATAAAATATTTACATACTTTGACTTCATTAAGGTTCATATAAAATATACAAAATACATCTAAAGAAACTTGGATTTTCTAGTAAATTAAAGAACTAGATAGAACATTGAATTTGCATCTGCAGATGCTTTATGAAGATGGGCTATTTTTACTGATATTTGGAGAAATGCATATTAGAAAATGCCTGTAATTCCTGCTTCTTGGAGAAGGAAAAAAAGAGATGGGATCATTggccaggcacggtgactcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgacgccggcgactcacaaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggctaacatggtgaaaccctgtccctgctaaaagtacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcaggcgcctgtaattccagctactcgggggttgaggcaggagaattgcttgaatccgagaggcggaggttacagtgagccaagatcgcgccaccgcactccagcccaggcgaaagtgcaagactgtgtctcaaagaagaagaaaagagaTGggatctcaatttgttgtctaggctggagtgcagtggtgtgatcatggttcactgcagccttgaagtcctggggtgggttcaagggattctcccacctcagcctccaggggcatgcccccacacccagccaatgtttcatttatttatttatttatttgtttatttatttttgagacagggtttggccctgttgcccagggtggagtgcagtggcatgatctgagctcactgcaagctccacctcccaggttcaagagattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactataaatgcctgccagcacacccagctaacttttgtgttttttgtagaggcgaggttttgccatgttgttagcctgctaagctcaaaggatctgcccacctcggcgtccgaaagtgctgggattacagatatgagctaccgcgcccagccttatttttatttttcgtagagacgagttctcactgttacccggatgaacccctggcctcaagcagtcctccTAGTGTTGAGATTATGGGCGTAACCATCTTGCTAGGCCAACAAATTCTTAGTGacagaattatagctagataggaagaataagtcctagtgttctatatcactgtaggatgactgtagttaataatctgtttttcctaatagctagaaggaggagtcgggtgcagtggctcacacttgtaatcccagcactttgagaggctggggagggtgaatcacctgaggtcaggagttggagaccagcctggacaacatgatacaaaaccctgtccctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcgggcacctatagtcccagctactggggaggctaaggcaggagaatcgtttgaacctgggaggcgggggttgcagtgaggcaagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagggagactctgtctcagaaaaaaaggctagatgtggtggctcatgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacctgaggtcaggatttctagaccagtgtggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctaataaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggtgcgtgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacctgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagctgagatagtgccattgcgctccagcctggacaacaagggtgaaactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagtcagatggatattgaatctcccaacccaaagaagtgataaatgttgaagatgagagacgtgccaagtacactgaactgataactatatgttatagacatcagaacatcactgtgcagccacgagcgcgcaagactgttatgtcatttaatcaaataaaGTGAAAAATTCTTAATGAAAAGAATTGTACTAATTGCATTGTAAttattattattttttgagacagtgtctcgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcacgatcttggctcattcttggcccatacccactgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaagtgattctcctgccttagtctcccgagtagctgggattaaaggctcgtgccagcacacctgcttaatttttatatttttagtagagatggggtttcacatattggccaggctggccttgaactcctgaccttaagtgatccacccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatcagccactgcgcctggccTTCCCCCACCTCCTCCtgagatggagtcttcctctgtcacccaggctggagtgtagtggtgtgatatccacttactgcaacctccgcctctcaggttcaagcaattctcctgccttagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcacgtaccaccatgcccggctactttttgtattcttagtagagatggggtttcactatgttggccaggctggtcttgaactgttgacctagtgatctgcccacctcggcctcccagagggctgggattacaggcatgagccgctgcgtccggctttttttttttttttttttgagacagagtcttgttctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcactatctcagctcactgcaacctccgcttccagggttcaagtaattctcctgcctcagcctcacgagtagctgggactacaggtgcacgccaccacgcctggctaatttttgtatgttcatattggccaggctggtctggaactcctgaccttgggatctgtctgccttgggctcccaaactgctgggattacaggcatgagccaatgtgtctggccTTTTAAAtttttttttttttttcctgagatggaatttcgctctaacaccaggctggagtgcggtggcgcgatctcagctcactgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcaagtgattctcctgtcttagcctcccaagtagctgggactactggcacgcgccaccacgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagcagagacggggtttcactatattggccaggatggtctccatgtcttgaccttgtgatccgcccgccttggcacccaaagtgctgggattataggcgtgaaccgccgcgcccggctAAAACATTCTTTAAAgagatagggccttgctctgtcacccaggtaggagtgcactggtgccatcacaactcactgcagccttgaactcctgggctcaagtgatcctcccgccttagcctcctcttcgtagctggcactacaggtgtgcaccactgtacttggcTTTCAAAAGTTCTTGAGACTAACAGGCTAGGAAAAATGGATTCAGTGTCATGATTAGGGAGGAAAATAAATTCTTTAAGTAGGTACAGTTCTATTTTTGTGTCCAGATATTTCATGCTTGTATCTGTCCGTCTGTCTTTCTGTCTGTTCATggctagtcaagtgaagcagtgggaatggagaaggaccaaagcaacccgtaacgattgtgatcagttagttgtaaacaccactgcactaggaccagcTCATCTTGTTTTAGCAAATTGGTATTACTCTGGTTACCATCTTGTGATATTCTTGTGTTTATCATAAGTTTCAAAACAGGGCTCATGTTGAGCCAGTGTCCTGTGTGTGCCACTAAAACCGGCGTCCTAGCTCTTCAGCCTTTAGGTCTCCTGATGGCtgtggacccacaaaatctgagacagatctcagttagtttagaatgtttattttgccatggttgaggatgcacacccgtgacacagcctcaggtactcctgatgacatgtgcccaaggtgactggggcacagcttggttttatgcattttagggagacatgagacatcaatcaatatatgaaagaagtacattggttcattctggaaaggtgggacaactccaagcaaaggcaggaagacatgaagcagggaggggcttccaggtcacagataggtgagagacaaacagttgcattcttttttttttttgagacggggtctcgctctgttgcccagctggagtgtggtggtgcaatcgcggatcagtgcaccctctgcctcctggtttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggtgcctgcctcgtctggctaattttttgtatttttagtagacacggggtttcactgtgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcatgatccgccccccccatcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccTTCTTGGTTGATTAATATTTATTTCTTTACTTTTATTTTCTTTTGAGACAGGGTCTCATTCTGTGCCTTATAGTTGCATAAAATGGAAATGTTTCTGGACATTTCTGGACAATAAATTTCTGTGTTCCTTTTTCTTTTTATTAAAGATTTActaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcgccatgtttcccaggttgttctccaactcctgagctcaagtgatccgcccaccttggccttccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccacctcgctcagccCCTCTGCTGTCGTCCCTTCCCTGGGATCAGTGGCCCAAAGTCCAAGGGAGGCTCTTGCTCTGCCTACCTTCCCCCTTTTCTCCTACCTGGTGGGCATTCTCAGCTAGGCCTGGCCAGCTGGCATCTTAATTTCCTGAAGGGATTTTCTCTTTGCTGAAAGATCCCCTTGCTTTGCTGGCCGTGTCCTGCCTACTGTTTCTTAGGTCAGTGATGCATCTTCCTCACAAAGATGTTCAAAATACACAGATGCTTTTATCCCTTATGGGAAGGAAGACTTCTGAAAATGCTGTGTGATGAATCTGGGAATGTTAGTTCTGGAGACCAGCCATGCTGGGGGATCAGGAAGGCATCCCTGCCATCCCTGCTGGTTCAGCTGCAGCTGTGCCTGCGGGCAGGAAGTGAAGAGGTGAGAACAGGTGCTGGCACAGGCCCGCCTGGCTGCCCTCTTCCCACCCTCTTGCTCCTTCAGCCCTCCTCCAGAACACAGGAAGGTCAGCTGAGTCCAtttttcttttttttttttttattgagacggagtctcgctttgtcgcccagggtggagtgcattggtgcaatctcggctcactgcaacctccagctcccaggttcaagcgattctcccgcgtctgcctcccgagtagctgggatgacaggtacctgccaccacgcctggctaatttttttgtatttttattagagacgggtttcaccatgttggtcaggctggtcttgaacttcttacctcaggtgatccacctgcctcagcctcgcagagtgctgggattataggccaccgtcgccatcgcgcctggccCTATTTTTCTTCAAGCCTGTTCCTGATCACTCAGTAACCTGGTATTCCCACTCACTCAGTAGCCTGATGTTCCTGATCCCTAAGTCGTGCGTATCCACGATTAAACAAACCCATGCTCTAGGAGTACACAGCAGGGGACATGAGGTCTTCCCATCACTGTCGACCTCTGGCATGTTCTCACGGGGGGTGAGTTTTCCCCTCTGTGTCACCCTCCAGTAAGTCCTGCCGATTCATTCAAAGCCCCACCTGTAGACCAGTGATGAAAATTAATTATTTGAAGTATCCTGTAACAGTCATAAAATAATCGCTATGCTGGGTACTCTGTCGTTGCCTCTCTAAATTGATCTCACGCACGCGGACCCTAATGTGCACAGGGACTAGCCTGGAGTTGGTGCCAGCTGCTCCTCTGGCTGGAGCCCTCTGCCCCATGCTGCTCCTTTCTTGGTCATGCAGCAAACACACATTTGTGTTCCCACACCAGGCACCCTTCCTTCTGTGACATAATAACAGCCTTTGAGTGACTGATACTTTTGATTTGTCTGCCTAGAGAAGGAATTCCACAACTCTTGAACTATGAAGTTCTCTAATCATGCttttttgtttgtttgttttgagacggagtctcgctctctcgtccaggctggagtgcagtggcaccatgttggctcactgtaagcgccacctcccaggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcacccgccaccacgcctggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccagggtggtctcgtctcctgacctcgtgatccgcccacttcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcgcctggccTCATGCTGtttttttaagaaacggggtctcactgtgttgcccaggccggagcgcagtggctgtttataggctctgtcacagtcactgcaccctccagctcctgggcagtcctcctgcctcagcttcctgcgtaggtgggactcctggcccatgccactgcacccagcTTATGATGCTGGTTTTTGAAATGGGGTTGCTATTCCCATGGTGAGTGTCTTGGGGGAGTTTGGGCATGGTAGTTGGAGTTATAAATTCAACTGAGGTCTTTTGTTTCATTCTGGAGCGTTATTAGAACCCTCGTGAAGGGGGTTGCTATTTCAGGAGGAGCTGCAATGGCCAACCAGGAGTGTGCTGGTCTCCTTTCTGGTCTTCCTCCCGCTCAGCCGGGCTGCCGCTTCTGGTGTCTGGTTGCTTCCATGGTTCTCTACTTCTGAAGTGGCAATCCAGGGTGGTCAGGCAGGGGTGAATTGTCTTTCGGTGTCATGCTACTTTTTTTCTGACGTAGTGGCAGTGTCTGCTGAGTCGTCCCAAAGCACAGAGATGTGATTTGCAGAAGGTATGTTGTGTCTTCGTGGGCAGGAGCTGGAGCTCCACCCTGTTGCTTTAGCAGGCGGCCTTTGACCAATTAAGAGAGCAGGTCTTTCTTGTTGGCGTAACTCTCCTGAGGGTCACAACAGGCTCCGTGCTAGAGCGGTCATCTCTGCAGATGTTTCTTCCTCTCTTCTACCACTCTCACCCCTTATTTTTTTCCCGCTTGTTTACAAAGTTTTATTTCATTCCAACATCGGGTGGGTTGGTTTACTTTACTAAAATCCAAGAAAAACAAGGCTGACGTTTTTGCTGTTGGAAATGAAAAGCCCTTTTATGAGAAAGTCCATCCCCGTCAGCATGGCTTATTCTGTCTGGTGAGGAGAGAAGAAGCCATGAAGACATTTCCTCTTGGTGATTTAATTTTTAAGAACCCTCTTCAGGAAGCCAGCCCTGTGATGCATTTTAAGAGAAATACCAGTTAGTGAGGTTTCATCAGCACTGAGGAACACTTGGCTCTCTCTTGCAGACTAAGAAATACCAAGCAGGAGGAGTCTTGGCATTTGGAACGGGTAAATCAAGAACCTGCTCTTGTTGGCTTGCGAGTGCCTTTAAAGCGAAAGCAAGAAGCTTAGAAGGAAAACGTCACAGATCATGCACGCTTAAAATAAAAACATGCAAAAGAAGTAAATAAAAATAATAACTTGCAAATAAAGGAGAAAATAAAAACCCCATCCAGCACCGTGAATCTTTTCAGCCTTCTGGCTTTTAAATTTTTCTTTGTATAGGACAGTTAAACAAAACCAGAGTCATAATTGACCATTTTAACCTAGTTTAAGTCAACATATTGTTACCACCTCTCGATATCAGTACATCTGCTTCTGCAGCATGATCTTTGGTGGTGGTGGttgttgttgttgagagggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatcttggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgaatagctgggactacaggcgcccgctaccacgcccggctaatttttgtacttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttagccaggatgatctagatctcctgaccttgtgatccgcccgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccatcgcgcccggccTGGATATGTAGGGTTTAAAGCATTTAAGAAAATATTTTCCGTCACCAAATTGTCTTCCAGAAAAGTAttgccaatctgatacaggaagaatggcatatcaacggagtttcagtttgtatttcCTGGAGTGTATTTGAGCTGATGTTCCTCTGCATGTTAATAAACAAGTGTTTTCGTTCTTGTGCGTGTCTGTGTTGTGGTGTGGGTGTTCTCCACCCTGAGGCCTCTCTTTCTCAACCTGTGCATGGAGGTTGGCCGAGGCAGCCTCTGAAGTACATGGAGCCCTGGACAGCGCCCTGAGTTTCTGTAGGGTTTCTTTCTTTTGTGGTATTATCCTTTCTTACGAGTTTCAGATATAGGCCATCAGTCTGCGTCATTCAGTAAGGAATAAAGAACATGGAAATGCCTACTTTTCACTACCTTTGTTCCGGTGTGACGTTCTCCTTGTAAAGGGCAGAGGGTAGTAGACTAAGGCAGGCAGCAGCAGGACGGTGCTGAGAACGGCTCTGAAGAGTCTCTCTTTTGTGCTGACTTAAAAGTTTTCTCTACTGTTGGATGATCTCTTGATAATTAAAAAAGAAATTATGATACTGATAGCTGTTCGGCCTGCAGAATAAAGCTGCAGTTACTTCATTCAGCAAGGTCTCAGGCTCCTAATTTTAGAGCTCCTAGAATTTTGTAGTCCTCTCAAGATTGGGTTCTggccaggtgccatggctcacgcctataatcccagcactctgggaggctgaggcaggtgttttacttgaggtcaggagttcgaaaccagcctgggcaacacagcgagaccctgtctctattaaaaaagattgggttcaggccgggtgcagtggctcatgcatgtaatccaagcactttgggagacccaggcaggcagatcacttgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatagcgagactatctctattaaaaaagaCTGGagcctggtgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcacttcgggaggccaaggcaggtggaatacgaagtcaggggaccgagcccatgctggctaacatggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcatcatggtgggtacctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggcagagcttgcagtgagccgagatctcaccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcgagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaaaagaTTGGGTTCAggctgggtgcggtggctcacacatgtaatccaagcactttaggaggccaaggcaggcagatcacttgaggtcaggagttggagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccgaatctactaaaaatacaaaaaaaaaaatcagccaggcctggtggcaagtgcctgtagtttcagctacttgggaggctgaggcacgagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggcggagtttacagtgagctgagatcttgccactgcattccagcctgggtgacagagcaagactcttgtctcaaaataaaaataaaaataaaaaaagaTTGGGTTTTAGGTACTATGCCAATATGGGAGCTCTTTTAAATTTAAAGCAAATCTCAAAATAAAAAAATGGACATTCTATAATCTCCCCCTTGCCCACCCAAGGGAGTGACTCTGGTCTGGTATGGGGGGATGAGAATCTGAGGCTGACACCCTCAGGCAGGTGGCTGAATCTCAGGCCCACAGAGACTGGGTTGCTGTTGGCTCCTGTAGCGGCTCCACTGTGGAGAGAAAGGTTCTGCCAGAAAATCTGGGAGCCACAGATTAGAACCTTCCTCCAGGCACTCACCATTTCTCCCCATCTGTGCTCTCGGCGGGAGGTGCTTTGTGCCCACTTGGCCCAGGTGCAGGGACCCAGCAAGAATGGGACAGACCTGGCTGCTCCCTGGGGGAGGCAGATGGGCAAAAGGACGTTATGGCCTGAGCACCTAGCAGCCTCCAGGTACAGGTGTTCTCTGGATGCAGTCCTGAGGCTCAGGTGTAGGCCCCTGTGTGAGGTGGGGGTAGGTGGGGCTGGAAAGTGTTCTAGACACAGAGACGAGGGTGCATCATAGAATTTGGGGACGTTGGGTCCTACTTGCTCTTGGGGAATGGGAGCTTTGCATCCTGTCATCTTTGTTTCCCTAAAGATCACCCTGGGTgctgggcatgggggtgcgtgtctcaactactcgggaggctgaagtgggaagattactggagcccaagagtttgaagctgcagtgagccatgatcactcctgtgactaaccactgcactccagcctgggcagcatagtgaaaccccgtgtctttgaaataataaaataaAGATCACCCTGGCCTCTTTCTGACCCGTATCTGAAATTGGTTGTCTATGTGAAGCAGAACAGTGGTACCCAGAGAGGCAGGGCACTGAGGCTTGTTTTATTTTAGGGGACGACATTGCAGGTGGGCTTTCCTTGGGAGCAGATATTTCCTTCAGAGGGACATAAAGAGTGCTCCTTGGCAGGCTGTCTTCCAGGTGGCCTTTGGCACTGCCTGCAGATCGGGTGGGCAGTGCAGCTGGGGAGCTCTGTGCACTGGCAGGGTCACCTGCACGTGGTCTCATCCTTCACAGTAGAAGTTTGTGGCATCTGCTGCTCTAGCCTGGTGTCCAGATGTGTCCTACAGAGACATGTTGACCTGTTTTCCAAGCACACTTCAGTGTGAGGACTTATTTCCATATAGTCCTTTTTATTCATATATCTCAAACttttttgttttttttttgagacgcactctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcagctcactgcaacctccgcctcctagtcctggttcacgcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcacatgcctccgtgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagattcggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcatgatctgcctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccatgcccggctTTAAAAACATTTTTTTAAGAGACGggctgggtgtgatggctcacagctatagtcccaacactttgagaggctgaggcaggaggatcacttgaggccaggagttcaagaccagcctgaacaatatagtgagactctgtttctacaaaaaatataaaaattagccaagtgtgatggtttacccctgtagttccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggaggatcacttgaggccaggaatttgaggcttcagtgagctatgattgtgccagtgcactctagcctgggcagtagagtaagaccctgtctccaaaaaggaaaaaagagaGTCAGAGAGAGagagatggcgtctcgctctgtcactcaggctggagttcagtggcacagtggcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggtgtgcaccactgcacctggctaattaaaaatatatatatattGTggccgggcgcagtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcggtggatcacgatgtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaacctcgtctctcctaatagtacaaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcaggcacctatagtcccagctactcagtgggctaaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacccggggggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgcgctccagcctgggcaacagagcgagactccatctccaaaaaagaaaagaagactaaaaCGTATAAATTATACCTGTCTCCCTACAGAAATTCATTAAGAGACTCATGCTCAGACTGTTGTCTGGTTAATGTGAACAACATGAGCACATCTGAAGAAAGGGTGAGAACAAAGGGTTACATTCAGCTTTCAGGTCAACTAATTTAAAACAACAGGACGGGCCAGgcacaatgaattgtgaaaaataacgctgacaatttaaaatagtggaacaaaattaaaaaaggaaaaagaaaaaaaactgtaaagaaaatttgacatatgaaaaagcgtattGTccaggcgcagtggctcacacctgtaatcctagcattttgggaggccgaggtgggcggatcatgtgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccaatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccgagcgtggtggcgcgcatctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaaaccatgaggcagaggttgcagtgagtcgagattgcgccattgcactctagcctgggcaatgagggaaactgtctcaaaaaaaTagccgggcgcagtggctcatgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggcagatcacctgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctgatcaacatggagaaacgccgtctactaaaaatacaaaattaggccgggcgcggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggtggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccttctctaataaaaatacaaaatattagccgggcatggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccaggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatggtgccactgcactccagcctgggcagcagaacgagactccgtctcaagaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaatacaaaattagccgggcgtggtggtgcatgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaagcaggagaatcacttgaacctgggaggtgggggttgcggtgagccaagatcgcaccactgcactccagcctgggcaacaagagtgaaactctgtctaaaaaaaaaTTGaataacataaataagtaaataaataagtaaataaaAACAGGATGGAAATTATACCTGAAATTTAAAAAGTAAGATGGCtgtggtaggccaaataatggctcccaaagatagctaggtcctGCTCTGTCCGCTGAGACCACCACACTCTACACAGTAGAGTCCTCCTCATGCTatgctctggccctcttgcccctccaacctcacttccagctgccggccccctgctcactctgctcctgacactccacaggcacacatcctcctccaggcctgtgcagtagctattccctctgcctggaaTATGCAGTCCTGTATATCTCCAGCTCAGTGTCTCACAgcgctgtcaccaggcgggacagagtgtcgggctcattcaggtgctcagcagaattcagctccttgaggttatagaactgaggaccctgtttgctggttggtcgtttgccagaaatggttcttaggtcctggagaaccctcaggttcaaccacatggtcctcccaggtatggcagcttacttcttctttgagaccaggaggCTGCTACGATGGAGTCTTAAGTTAacataaatcacagctaggtgtggtggctcacacctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggtgggaggatcgcttgagcctaggatcttgaggctgcagtgagctgtgtttaccacaccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagggagaccctatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTTTTAggccgggtgcagtggctcacagctataatcccagcactttgggaggctgagttgggtggatcacttgaggtcaggagtttgagacccgcctggccaacatcgtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaattagccgtgcgtgatggcgggcatctgtaatcccagctgttgcgtagactgaggcaggagaattgtttgaacccgggaagcagaggttgcagtgagccaaggtcgtgccactgcactctagcctgggcgacagagtgaggctccatctcaaaaaaaaaTTTTGTTTTAAAGATTAAGTtaacctcgtcacagtgactgtgccaccacatgcacaggccttgcccacactcaagagagggggTCTTAGAATTCTGCCTGCTACCATGGTCTAGTCTTGGCACACCTTCCTTGACAACATGGAAGCCAGGTCACTACCCAGGCCACCTACAAGGAAGTTCACCATTTGACCTGCCGAACGTGCACAACAAACtttttttctctttcttgagacagggtctcactctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggaacaatcttggtatactgcaacctctgcctcccgggctcaagcgatccttctgtctcaccctcccgagtagctgggaccacaagcatgcaccaccatgcccagctctggctaattttttgtatttttggtagatatttttgtatttttgtttcactgtggtgcccaggtcagtttcgaactcctgacctcaagtgatcccctggcctccaaaagtgctgggatgacagatgtgacccaccacgcccaaccAAGTATTGGATAACTTTTTAGTTTCTTTTTCTTCCTCCTTTACTTCCGCTCAGGGGTCTAGGTCTGAGTCAGGGCTTGAGGGTGTCCCCATGGGGGCTGGTGTTACCCAGGACACTGCAGCGGCTAGCAGGGCTTGGCTGGGCTGGCGAATGAGGGCCCCACTTCTCTTTTTTGTACAGGGAAGGGACCGAGGATCTGAGTGACATCTGTAGGTCAGAGGGCATGCTGACCTTGAAAGCAAGGTGGGAATGGAGTTCTATGAGCTGAGGAGTCCCAGCTGGCTCGCATTCTAGAGAAGCGCCATAAAGGGAGTCTATTCATTAGCCCCAGGGAGAGAGCCTCCCGCTCCCTCCCTCCCCGCCCCCCACCCCACCCCACCCTTAGGAGCTGCTCACCTTCCCCTCGCCTGGGGCACACACCTGCTTCTCCAGGGACCAGACCTGAAGTGCAGGAAGGAGCCCCGCGGCCTTCTGTTACCGCAGCGCTCTGCCTGCCATCGTTGAATGTGTGGACTCTTTGGTTGCTTTCATAAATTCTGTTTTATTTCCTCATCATGTTTGCTGAAAGCTTGAATGTATCCACTTGGCTGTTTTCCAAGTATTCTCATGTGCATTTTAAGAGTCTCCTGTCtttaaaataatgtggaggcagctctgaatatactaaaaccattgaattgtacccttcagatgggtgattttgtggtatgtgaattttatttcaatgaagctgttaaCAGAAATAGTACAGAGTCCGTACTGTTGTGTTTTCTGGAGCACCTGGAGTCccctctgtccctggccatccctccttccccacacctcacccctgtacctcaccttccccacccccctgcctcacccctgcacctcaccctccccACGCTTCCCGTATCAGGGAGCTTCTTAAACACAGAATGGGGTGTTAAGATGATTGGAGGGCAGCAGCCTATTGGAATCCCGATGAACGTGGAAAGGTGTCAGGGAGGGGTAGCTGTGGTGTGGAGGAGCCCCACATTTTCGTCCCTGTCTTGTCACAAAGAAGGAGCCCATCGCTGTGATTAGAAGGACTTAggccgggcatggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttggcaggctgaggcaggtggattacctgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagctggccaacatggagaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggcatggtggtgtgtgcctataatcctagctccttgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgtttgaaccagggaagcggaggttacagtgacccgagatcacaccattgcactccagtctgggcgacagagcaagactctctctcaaaaacaaacaaaggaaaaaaacaaacaaaAAggccggggctcggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcggtggattgcctgaggtcaggagttggagaccagcctggctaagatagtgaaaccccatctttactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcgtgatggcaggcgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgatgagggagaatcatttgaacctcgggagggcagatgttgcagtgagttgagatcgcgccactgtactccagcctgggcgacaagagtgaaactccttaaaaaaataaaaaggaaacaaacaaacaaacaaaaaatcagctgggcatagtggtgggggcctgtagtcccaggtacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacctgggtggctgatattgcagtgaggcaagatcatgccactgcactccagcctgggtgatagagtgagactccatcttaaaaaaggaaacaaaaaaaaGCCACAAAGAAGGACTTAGAATTGGGTGCTAAGCAGGCCTCTTCCTACTGATAGGTGGACACATCTATTTCTttattattattattattattatttttgagacagagtcttgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcggtggcatgatctcggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccctgttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcatcccgagtagttgggactacaggcgcccgccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatctgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcctggccTATTTCTTTAttttttaatttttttttattttttatttttgagacggagtctcgctctgttgcccaggctagagtgcagtgagcgatcttggctcactgcaagctccacctcccgggttcaagtgattctcgtgcctcagcatcccgagtagttgggactacaggcgcccgccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatctgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcctggccTATTTCTTTAttttttaatttttttttattttttatttttgagacggagtctcgctctgttgcccaggctagagtgcagtgagcgatcttggctcactgcaagctccacctcccgggttcaagtgattctcgtgcctcagccttctgagtcgctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccacgcctggctaaatttttgtatttttagtagagacagggtttctccgtgttagccaggatggtctcaatctcctgacttcgtgatccactcgccttggcctcccaaagtgttgggattacaggtgtgagccaccatgcccggccTGGCCACATCTATTTCTGATGGATAAAAGTGGATTCCTGAATATGTGATATGCCTCTCTGGGGACCTGTGGAATGACATTTTGCATGTCAGACCAGCACAGTGCTTTTATTCTAGACTTTTCTAAACCTTCCCCTCTAAACCAGGGAAAGCGAGTCGGTTCCCCGGTTCCTCATCATGGGTAATCAGAACAGATCTCTGATTTAGGAAGTTGGtttttttttttttttttttttgaagcagagttttgctcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatcttggctcactgcaacctctgccccctgggttcaagcgattcttctgcctcagcctccccagtagctgggattacaggcgcctgccaccacgcccagctaattttgtatttttttttaagtagaggcggggtttcaccatgttagccaggctggtctcgaactccagagctcaggcaatctgctcacctcggcctttcaaagttctgggattacagacgtgagccaccacacccggccAAGGAAGCTATTTTTGTACTTCAAACAGAAAAACTGAGCTGCCAGTGAGCACATTTCAGAGTAGGAAAACTCATATTATTCAGCCTACCTGTCTTTCTTCCAAATTTCAATTTAGAGATAAACACACCGTAGCTTTTAAGTTGCCAAGAAAAGAGACATGAGATGTACTCAAATGCCTTCATTTTCCCAGTAGGACCTCATCATTCCAGGTGGTTGAAGCATCCAGTAGGCGGGTCTTTGTTCCTTGCTCACACACCCAGTTAAAAGCAAAGGCCTCCCCTCATCTAGAGCCAACTCTGAGCAGGGTCGTTAAGCATCAACTGCCAAGCATAACCCCCTATAAAGTTGCTTGCTATAGTAGTTGGTGCAAAGCTGACTAAATGGGAATTAAAAACTGTCTCTagccaggcacagtggctcatccctgtagttccagctactctggaggtcagttggaggattgctggagtccaggagtttgagaccagcctgagcaacatagcgagatcgcctccctacaaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtttggtgacactcacctctagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaagaggattggccgagtctagtcgttcACATCTAGCGTGGGAAACATGTTGTAGACCTCATCTCATATTGTATACCTCCTCAAAACCAAAACCAAAAAACCCCAAAAGCAAAAACCAAAAAAACCCACAAAACCAACCATGAAAACACCCCTGTCTCTGGAACTCCTTGTCCAAGGTCCCTGAGGCTAATGTGATTTGGAACAGAAGCCAACTTTCCTGCAGGTTTAGAAAGTGTCACATACAGGCTCTTTCTCATTCAAGCGTATAAGAACAGGCTTTCTTggccgggcgcagtggctcacacctgtaatcccagtactttggaaggctgaggcagtaggcagatcacctgaggtcaggagttccagaccagcttggctaacatggcaaaacgacgtctctactaaaaattcaaaagttagcgaggcgtggtggtacgtgcctgtaatcccagttacttgggaggctgaggcacgagaattgcttgaacccgggaggtggaggttgcagtgagccgagattgcactactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcgaaactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaacaaaaaaaCTAGGCTTTCTTTCTTTTTTTTTTTTTTCTTGGCCACATGCACCAGATTGAAGAATAAGCTTTCTTGTCTGTTCTCTATACAGTGATATGTAAAAATCACCACTCAGATCAAAGAATTGAGAACTGCGCagccaggcgccatggctcacgccggtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggcggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctggccaacatggcgaaaccccgtctctactacaaaaatcagccgggcgtggtggcacgtgcctgtcatgccatctacaaaggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacccgggaggtggaggctgcagtgagctgagatcacaccactgcactccagcctgggtaacagaggcgactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaTTGAGAACCGCGCACACTCTCACAAGCACTCAGCAGTGGTCAGTCCATTCTTGGGTGGGTGATCGGATATGACTGGAGCAGGTGCTCCCTGTCACTGtttttgttgttgttgttgttttttgggagatagggtctcactctgtcgcccacgtggaatgcagtgacgcaatcatggctcgctgcagcctcaacctcccaggctcaggcaatcctcccacctcagccttccaagtagctggaactactggcacgtggaccgacgaattttttggaattttttgtagagatgaggtttcaccatgttgcccaggctagtctggaactcttgggctcaagtgatccatccgccttggcatttcaaaatgctggaaagccaggtgtgagccattatgcctggccTTAGTTTGGTTCAGGCTTTATACTAAGTGCATCTCAAATATTTTATTGAACATCCTTTCATTTCTAAGAGTACTTCAGTTATCTCTGTTAAAATGAACCAACCAGAAAGATTCCCACTCAAGTGCAGGACAACAGATATTAGTATCAAGAATTAAggccgggcacggtggctcgctcacacctgtaaccccagcactttgggaggccaaggcggatggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctgtaAGGTGGGCTGAgtggctcacacctgtaattccagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggcggatcacttgaagtcaggagttcgagaccagcctgggcaacatggcaaaacattgtctctaccaaaaatacaaaaatgagccgggtgtggcggcacacacagctacttgggaggctgaggtgggagaatcgcttgaacctgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagttgagattgtgccactgcaccctagcctgagtgacagagtgagaccctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaagaaaaagaaaaACAAggctgggcacggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcaatttgggaggccgaggtgggcagatcacttggggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctgcccaacatggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatactaaaaaattgattgggcatggtggaaggtagctgtaatcgcaactacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcatccaaaccagaaggcggaggttgtagtgagctgaggccgcaccactgcactccatcctgggcgacggagtgagactccatctcaacaacaaacaaaaaaaccaacaaaaaaaCAACAACAAATCAAAACAAAACGAGCACTTGTTGGGAACAGCAGGGAAAGCCCTTTGTGTATATGTTTAGCTGCTTCGCGTCTGCTTTTAGAAAGAAGTGTCCGTGCCATCGGCAGGTGAGCCGCAGGCTTCAGTGCCATTGGGAGATACTGTATAGCCAGGCTTCCAGAGCCGCCTCTCTCCCTGCCCACGCTGGCCCATGTGCTGATCTAGTGTGAAGTTTACAGATAGCTTCGGGAACTCCTAGGAACATTTTGCTTATTATTGCTGTGGTTTCTGATAAGATAAGCTTTGTTGAAAACAGTATAATTCAAGTATGATAGTAACAACAAGATGCAGAAAGGCGGTTTCTCGTTCTGAAAGGTGCTTTGCTGTGAAGCCATAATACAGTGTGTTATTCGAGAATCCTGGGAGGAGTCTCTGGGATCCTAGTTGACTGTGGTGGGAGAACTTGTTCTGCTTTCCTTTCTTTCAGATTAGTGGATCATGTTTCTACATCCATAGTAGGAACAATGCAATTTGTCAGTAAGTTTTTCATACTGCAGTCACCCTGGAGCCAGTGACTGAGTGGATTCTCCACCATGGTGTTTCTGTAACTTATTGTCCGTCTGCTGGAGCGGTGCTGGCTGGCTTTGGCCACTCTGGTTTATGTCTCTTGGCTCGGTTTTCTGCCACTACTGGATTTTGCAGGGAAGGGCAGGCTGTCTCATTTTTCACAGTTTCACCTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTGAAAGCCTCTGAATTGAGTATTTTGGACTTGGAGAATTAGAACTATCCCCAAATCATCAATTACATGAAATCCATCTGTTCTACAGATTATAAAGAAAATATAATTAAAATGGAGTTTTAAAAATGTATACTTTGATTCACTCTTGTTCATTCTAACATGGTAACATGTAAAAGGGGCCTATTCTAGTTAATGATTTGTTTAAAAAATATTTGGTTAATGTTTCAGAATAAACAACTTGGTACTTTGTGTTCAATTAGTAGCTTCAGTGTGGAAATTCTTAGGAATCTTCAGGACAGATTGGCCAGTCTGGACTCCGGATTAGGTAACTCTCAGGTACCCAGCAAGACTCTCACATTCTTAGGAATGAGCTTAGGAATGAGGACTTTTGTGAGATAAGTGGGGAGATGTTTTATAAACTCCAGTTGTCTCCAGGAAGTTGGTTGATGATGGACTTCCGAGGCTAGAGTCACGCTAGCACACAGAGCCCTAGGATTGGGGCGATGGCCCCGGCCTCTTCCGTTGTGAAGGGGAAGCGGAAACTCAGTCTCTGGCTCAGGAATTCCACACTGTGGGGTCCCTTAGCTGGGGCTGGCCCTGTTTGAGCCTGACTTTATGAGGCATGTTGGCTGACAGTGGCGAGAGGGCCAGCCACGGGGGCCCGGGCCTTGCTCTGGTGCCCTGTGTGCTTCGGGCTCTCTGGATTGCCTCCTGGGCGATGCTATAGCCTTGCTGACCACGTGCTACACCCCCCATCCTTTTCCTGAAACAGAGCAGCTGTGTCCTGGCATCTCCAGCAGGGCTGCCCTTGAGGGTTCTGTGCTTGCTGCTTGGTAGCAGCCCCGGCATCTGGACTTCACCACAGGGCCTAGGGGGCCTTCCTCGGGTTCACCGATGCCCACAGGGCCTGGGGGGCCTTCCTCGGGTTCACCGATGCCCACAGGGCCTGGGGGGCCTTCCTCGGGTTCACCGATGCCCACAGGGCCTGGGGGGCCTTCCTCGGGTTCACCGATGCCCACAGGGCCTGGGGGGCCTTCCTCGGGTTCACCGATGCCCACAGGGCCTGGGGGGCCTTCCTCGGGTTCACCGATGCTCATCTGCCGTAACCTGCCTGAGGCCCTAGGGTTTTGTCAGTTAATGGATGTGGCTACAGCCAGGGCTCCTGCCAGCCTGTTGCCTCTCCCTGTCCCTGAGCATTTTCACAGTCCAGCCCGCCACCCAAGAGGGGCTTTCTTCAGGAGTCTGCCCCCTCTGTGGCTGAATGCTGCCTCCTTTTTCCTTTCTCCCTGGCCCACACTTCTTTCTTCTTTGCTCTCTTTTTCTCTTTTGCTGTTCTTGAAGTTTTCATTATGGAAGAGTTCAAACCCATATGAAAGTGGAGAGTAGTGAAATGGTGCACTGGTACCCATCCCCAGTCACAGCAACGTGCAGGCATGCCTCTGGTGACATCTGTGCCTCACCCCAGATTCTAGAGGtatttctaagtatttcagtacatgtgtctaaaaagcagtgctctttaaaaaattatgaaaatgtcatcacacctacaaaaatgaacagttccttaatatcatcaaatatttatcagtgttcaaaCtttttttttttttttttttgagacagagtttcgctgtttttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacgatctcagctcactacaacctccacctcccggattcaagcaattctcccgcctcagcctcccgagtagctggggttacaggttcccaccaccacgcccagctaattttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttctccacgttggtgaggctggtctcgaactccggacctcaggtgatccgcctgcttcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattataggcgtgaaccaccacacccagctTCAAACtttttttttttttttttttttagcagacaaattctcattttgtagcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatcttggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctccagcttcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcgagcgccaccacacctggttaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggttttgccatgttggccaggctggtctggaacccctgaccttcggtgatcccatctcagcctctcaaagtgctgggaatacaggcgtgagccacAAGGCACCTGGCTGcaatgtggttttaatttaatttgcatttctttaaggactaattgagcattttttcatgtggttatcaaccattcacacatattttctgatgaaatttctatttaagttttttgcccacttaaaaaaaaattgagttgtcttttttttttttttttttttgagacagagtctcattcaatcacctaggctggagtgcaatggcgcaatctctgctcacggcaacttctgccttccgggtttaagcaatttacctgtctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcgccaccacgcctggctgattttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttctccacgttggtcaggatgatctggaactcccagcctcaggtgatccactcacctcggtttctcacagtgctggggattacaggtgtgagccaccgcacctggcctgagttgtcttcttaattataagatttccttatatattctggacacaagtcatttaacagatatatgatttgcaaatactttctcccagtcagtgtcatttttttgcttttattaatgtcttttgagtatgaaagttttaaatttttatttttaagttttggggtacatgtgtaggatgtacaggtttgttacataggcaaacgtgtgccatggtgatttgctgcacctgtcagcccatcagctgagtattaagcccaggtattttctgtaatactctcccccctcccaccccatcccctgaaaatttttaaatttttatgaaatccaatttaCACTTGGCAGAATAAACCTGCATTCTTTCTGAAGAGTTTCATTTTGTGTTACGTCCATGTGTGAGTCACCCTACTTAGCGTTTATGATTTTTGATATCAAGGGTCTTTTTCCCTGAGTTATTCGCTACCAAGGACTCTGCAGAGCCAGGAAGGCATTTCTGAATGGGCGGTGTGTGCTTATCTATGTTATCTATGTAACATATCTATGTTGGCATGCTGGATCCTTGCCGGAACAATACCTAAAACTTCAGAACTGATCTCCCCACGTAAGACCCTGGCTGCTGGCGTTCAGTGGCCAGGGTCCTACTCCTGTGGTTCATCACGCCAGGTGCTGCTGGCAGCCCATTTACAGGGTGCTGCCTGTCCTGTGGCTGTGACCGTCTGCAGTGGCCCATGGAGGCCGTGCTGCCTCCTGCACGTGAGGAGTCAGAGGCTGTCACTGTCAGCACCGCCCCTGTTGGCGGCTTCTTTGCATGTGGTGAAAAAGCCAAGCTCGCGATACAGCCTAATCCCGATTCCCTAAagcggcccgcagccttcttggcaccagggattggtttcatagaagacgcctttccacagacgggcagggcgttggggtggtttcaggatgatactgttcagatcatccggcgttagagtctcataaggagcgcgcaacctggacccctcgcatgcggagcacacagtaggctttgcgctcctgtgagaagaacctgatgctcctgctgatctgacaggaggggagctcaggcggtaatgctccctcacctcctgctgtgcttccccgttcccagcaggccacacaccagatctctcccagtccgaggtccagggttggggacccctgCTGTAAAGGCTTAGGGTAACCTAGTCTCATTTGGCAATTACAGGTGAAGGACTTAACTAAGTACTTGGATCCCAGTGGGCTCGGCGTGATCAGCTTTGAAGACTTCTACCAAGGGATCACAGCCATCAGAAACGGAGGTCAGTCATCCCCGCCATGAGCTCCCACCTCCTCTCCCGTTCCTCAGCCACCCTCTCAGCCACCTGCACATCACCAGGCTCCTCGTGCTGACTCTAACATCTTTCCTTCTCCTTGAAGCCCCCAACATACCCCAGGTTTCCAGGTGGTCTCTTTCCTTTCTTGTTACCTTCTCCTCACATACCCTGTTTTCCAGAATTTGCTGCGTTAACTACTTTTCCATAATGCTAGAAAGCAACTGCCCCCTTCCTCAAAGATTTCATGATGACAATTTGAGAATTTTCAAAATATTGAAAGAATGATTCCATGGCCACCCAAGTGGGTGTTCATCACCCGTGCTCTGCAGGCAGCACTTCGTCGCACTCTCTCCCCACGTCTCTGTCCATCTCCAGTCTGTCCCCCAGCCCCTCTTGAATGGGATGTGTTTGTAATCAGCATGCTTCCGCGCACACCGCCCTGAACACTGCAGCCCGTACCACCATCGTTCCCTAGAGCTCAGTGTTTGTTTCCAGTCTTCCTTTGAGTAAAAATTTACCTGCAGTGAAATGTACAGCTCACACCTGCTCCTCTGTGAGCTCCGACAGAGTCCTGTGCCTGGCAGTGCGGAGCCTGTCACGCACATCACTGTccccatgtgggtgccgcatacccctcgccctcaggcagtgccttccctcctgctggcaccattgctgatttctgtcaccatggattagttttgcctAtctctcttttttttctttgagactgagtttcactcttgtcacccaggctggagtgcaatggcccgatctcggcttactgcaacctccaccttccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctgagctgggattataggcacccaccaccatgctcacctctactaaaaatacaaaacatataaaaatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggcggggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccgcctgcctcagcctcccaaggctgaggtgctgggattacaggcatgaaccaccgtgcctggccAGTTTCACCTGTCTTGAGGGTTCGCGTGCTCTCACTTGGCTTCTTTCCTCAGCACGATCCCTTCCCCAGCACGATCCCTTCCCCAGCACCATCCCTTCCCCAGCACCATCCCTTCCGCAGCAccgtcccttccccggcaccgtcccttccccagtcccccggcaccgtcccttccccagtcccttccccagcaccatcccttccccagcaccgcaccatcccttccccagcaccgtcccttccccagcaccatcccttccccagcaccgtcccttccccagcacgatcccttccccagcaccatcccttccccagcaccatcCCTTCCTCAGCACAATGTCTTCCCCAGCACAATGTCTTCCCCAGCACCATCCCTTTCCCAGCACGATCCGTTGCGTGCTTGTGCCGTATTTCGTTTCTTCATTCTCCTGGTGATGGGCacgtttgtgtacaactctttgtgtggatgcgtgtcttcaagtccttggggcctgtatctaggagtgggtcatgtgctggggtaaactcggttcttcacagtggccgtgccttttcacactctcaccagTCCCCATACTATACACTGTCCGTCTTACGTCAAGTTCTGAAGCTCTGAACAGGCCATCTCACTTCCTCATGTTTGGCCAGGCGGTGTAGGGGTGACGGTGGCGGGTCCTTTCCCTCCTTCATGCACGTGCAGGATAAGTAGACCTTGGCTGGGGCCCTCAGAGTCAGCAGGTGCAGTGAGGGAGACGGATGCCCTTGGACCTCGACCTCAGGTCTTGTCTGTCTCCTCCACAGAATTATTGCCTGACAGTGTCTCTAAGGGTTTTCTCAGATGCCAAGTCTTTAGATGGCTCTGGGGAAACGTGCTGTGTGTTGTTCCCCGGtttttttttttttttttttttttttgagacagagttttgctcttgttgcccaagctgaagtgcaatggcatgatttcgtctcactgcaacctccgcctctcgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtacctgggattacaggcatgtgccattgcgcccagctaattttgtatttttagtagagacagggtttctccgttttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccacccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctggggttacagacatgagccactgcgcccggccTGTTCCCCATTTGTTACTCTTTATTTGACTGTCTGTTCTTCCACCCATGAACATGTTGTGGGACCAGCACGGCCTCTGCGCTGGGCTTGGCCCCGGGGCCTCTGTGGTGAACCAGCACCAGAGCAAGGCCAGCGGGCTGCGGCAGGACAAATGGGTGAGGTGCTGCTGCTGTCAGCGTAGCAGGCCGGGGGTGAGATGGGAACTAGGCAGGCAGCCCTCTCTGAGGAGGGGTGGAGGGGAGAAAGGACACCCTGACAACCAGGTAAAGACCATCTGGCCCAGGTGAGGAAGCAGTCCTGAGGTGGGGCGAGGGGCCCAGGACGAGGATGGAGAGATACTGCAGGCTCTGCAGGCTGAGAGGAGCGTGCAGGCAAGCTCTGGGTCAAGGGGGCCTGCAGAGCAATGGGCAGAGTGGGTGGCCACAGACCCTCAGGAGGCAGCATTGGCAGGAGAAGGGGGAGGAAGAGGACAGTCAGGAGGCCTCAGAGTCTGCAGGCTGAGCACCAGCAGGTTGAGGCTGATGGGGCCGTGTCTCAGTCTAACTGATAAGCTGCAACCCTTAAGTAACATCTTAAGAGGATAGGTGTGTACTTTATACATTTATTTAACGTTTGTCCTTCTGTACAAAGCTTTCAGTAGCGGCTTTGTGAGAATTTTGGCGTCTCACATACTGTGCCTTGAGGCTTGCTGCATGGCGTGCTGCAGGTCCTCCCTCCAGGCCTTCTGGAAAGTCTGGTTCTCCTCAGGTTACTCCTGGGACATGGCAGCTGTGCCCATGACCCTCGGGATGAGTTTGTTCTCTAACTGATTCACCGGTTAGCTCTGGGGAGATTCTAGGTGTAAATTTTTTCCTCTTAGTTTGAAAAATCCATTATGggccaggcacagtggctcatacctgtaatcccagcactttgggagactgaggtgagaggatcagttgatcccaggagggtgagaccagcctgggcaacatagtgagaccttggctgtgcaaaaaaataaagtagttgagcattgtggcgtatgcctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggttgaggtgggagcatcccaggaggtggaggctgcagtgagctgtgtttgtgccactgcactccatgcactccagcctggtgacagaccctgtctcaaaaacaaacaaaacaaaaaaaaCTTGCCATTAATTCCAAACAGAATTTTGTGTGTAATAGAGAATGCGATCTTTATGACACTGATGCTTTGGTACTTGCTGGGCCGGCTGGGTGGTTTTTATGCATGTGATGGGTACGCCTGAGAGGATGCTTCTTTTCTAATCATTGGTCCCCTGAGTTCATGGAGGTGCGAGCTGGAGACTCACGTTAGCTTGGTCTCAGTCGCAGGGAGGAGAAAAGCCGCTCATGAAGCTGGTAGCTGTGTCGTTTTTGTTTTGTATAGCTGTGTTTCGTCTTCACTCTTAAGTCAAGAATTACTGGATGCAGGCTTCTAGGTTGATGGTGAGGGAGCCCGGGGACCCCCAGAACTGGTTGTCATCGGAGAGGCCTCagtgtttggggctgagatgggtgcatggaggccaagcacaagaccccaggaggcagttaccacttccatgaaaaacaagaagtggaataagacagcctgtacttcttggtccagtaacaagccatattttacatagccataatagttaaattgaatattgatgtaactgaagatggcgatgtaaccattttggaagattggaggagggaaaatgGGGCAGGGTGCAGTGTGGCAGGGCATCTCATGGGGACTGTTTGGCAAAACAGAGGGAAGTAGATGCGAGCTTAGAGGGGAGTGTGGGCGGCCTGTCAGTAGCCACGGCCTCTCAGCACTGGCTCCtttttcttttgagatggagtctcgctctgtcggccaggctagagtgcagtggtgtgatctcggctcactgcaacttgcgtctcccaggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgagaccacaggctcgcgctgccacacctggccaattttttgtgttagagatggggttttgccatgttggccaggctggtcgtgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccacccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagacgtgagccaccgcgcccggccAGCAGTGGTTCATTTTCTAGTGACAGGCACGTGTATGAAATCACAGGGAACAGGACTGTAACTCCACGCATTTTGAATAAAACCAGGAATTCTTTGTTGTGACTGCTGGTCTTGTTATAAATGTTACAACCCATTTCCTCGGTGCCACAAAGACTCAGAGCACTCAGGGCCCTGGCCAGTCACTGGCTGTGCTGGTCTCGGCTTGTCATAGGGTAAACTTGCTCTGCACAATGTGGCTGGCAGAGCGTGTTCCTGGGCCTGTGACTGAGGGCAGCCTGCAGGAGATTTGGGCTGGAGATGTGTTCCCTCGGGAGTCAGGGACACAGCCTGTCATGGAGAGTTAAGACGGGTCTTTTGTAGGTTTGGACAGGTGAAGTGCTCAGATCCCTCTGCAGGGTCAAGGCTGGGAACAGCAGTGGCCCCGGGTACCATGACATGGGCAGGAGGGAGCCACCTGGGTCCACGATTCTGTCGTCAGGGTAGGGGTTGGTTTGTTCCTGTGGACCATGGCTAACGTGAAATGGGGCAAGCTCAGCTCTAGGGGTTCCTGGGAGGCCTTGGCTTGGAAGGTGCCCACTCTCAGCTCAGGAGTCAGGGTGTGGGAGATGCCCACCAAGCAAAATGAAGCCTCTAGCCTGGCCTGCTGCCCTCGGAGGAGCCCGATGCTCTGTCTGGGAAGCCTGGGGGCTGCCAGCTGTGGACTGTGGCTGCCTGTGGTTGCCGGTGTCTTGGCTTAGTGACTGAAGGGGTGAGAGAGTGATCGTCCAAGGACAGCCCATCTCCAGATGTTTCTTAGTGGTTGCCCAGCCACCTGACACGCCAAGCTGGGGCCTTCTCCCAGACACCGTCCCCTTCTCTCTTTGCTGTCACCTGGGCCAATCCCACAGCAGCTGGGGCACCCCGTTCTCCTTCCCAGCAGCTGACAGATGGGCCTGGGAGGGCTCCTGCGCCTGTCTGCTTGAGAGGGCGGTGAGCTAGTCATCGTGAGCCGGCCAGGGCTCTCCTATCTCACTGCATTAGAGCTTGAGCCAGGCTGGTGGAGGTGGCTGCAGCCGAGGGAGAGCACGGCTGGCACCTGTGAGGACCATGGATGGGGACACATGGGGCAACGGGCCCGTGAGTGCTGTCGAACCAGCctgttccaggctctgggacgtagcacgaaacggcagtgcagaacccctgcccttgggagctggctttctagtgggagacagaccacaaaGTAAGGCAGGAGCTAGGGAGGCAGAGGAGTGGGGAGGCCTCCCTGAGAACGTCTGGGATGGGAAGGCAGCATCCCAGCAGGGCTGCACCTGGCATGTTTGGAGGCCACAGGGAGGCAGGGTCAGAAGGAGCAGGTGAGAGGCAGGCCTCACAATTCTGTCTCCAGCTCCAGGCTCCTGAAGAGGATGGTGGGGCATCCCTGAGAGCTGGTGTGAGGGGTGGGACACTgagctgactgcagagctgactgcagagTGGAGTGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGTAGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGACGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGACGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCGGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGACGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGACGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGACGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTTGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGAAGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTTGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGAAGTGAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCCTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGAAGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCTGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGAAGTCAGGGAGGAGGTGCAGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGAGGAGGTCCTGGGGCGTCAGGGAGGCGGTGCTGCCATGGCATTGGACACATGGCCTCTGGGGCTGCGGGGTCTGCTTTACTTTTGAGTAATTTGATGTCATGATTTATGTTTCGTTCGGAAGGAGAGTGAAACTAGAATAAAACGAAGTCGAAGATGATTTTGGAATTATTTCATAGCATTTAGAAGAAAGGAAAATGTGATCATCCAAACCGCACTTCAGCCAAAGTTCACTTCAGGTGTTAGCTCCATCGTGGCTGCAGCAGCCTGTGTTGTCTGTCAGCCCTGTCTGCGTCGAGGAGTGACCAGCAGGATGTGCTGGCCTAGTTTGCTGGGAAGCACAAGGAGGCTTTCCTGTCACAGCCACAGGCCTTGTTTCAGGAATAGAATGAGATAGAGAGGGATTGTTCCAAATAGGCCATTGCTGTGTCTCACACACCCTCACGCTTTGGAAGAATAAGGGAAACGCACGTGAAAAATTCCTAATTAATTGAAAATTGTTTTAGTTTTTATAAGGAAAACTAATATGAGAATGGTATTTAGGTCCTACCAAGAATATAAAAATGCCATCTGTGTTCATATCCCCTGCTCCGCCCTCTGGGGCAAGACCCTCAGATTGTTTGCCCACTGTCAGAACCTGAGCTGTCATGCGCTGTGTCCAAAATGCTTCGCTGTATATTGAAAGTTTTTAGTTCTGTGTTTCAGTGTTTATAAGCGCAGGCAAGACTGTTAGCATTTTAAAATGTAATTTAATTTTTAATttattattattattattattattttgagacagactctcgctgtagcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatcttggttcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggtcccggttcaagctattctcctgcctcagcctccctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcacataccaccatgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagtacagacgggttttcaccatgttggccactatggtctcgaactcctgaactcgtgatctgcccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattgtaggcgtgagccaccatgcccggccTAttttttattattttaaatgtattatttatgtatttatgagacagggactcactttgtcacccaggttggagtatagtggcatgatctcagctcactgcagcctccacctcccaggctcaagtgattcttgtgcctcagcctcccgagtagatgggactacaggcatgcccccaccacacctggctaattgtttttgtggagatggggtttcactgtgttggctgggatggtctagaactcctgaccttaagtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctaggattacaggcgtgagccaccacacccggccTTATCTTtattttttgtagacataggatctttgctatattgcccaggccagtcttgaactcctggacttaagcaatcctctagtgtcagtcttccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccatgcctggTCTCCACttttcttttttcttcgagacagggtcttgctctgtcactcaggctggaatgtagtggtgcagtcttggccaactgcatcctctgcctccctggctcaagccttcagagtagctaagactacaggtgtgtcccacaatgtccagctgatttttttcttttcttttctttctttcttttttttttgagatggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagagtggtgtgatttcggctccctgaaacatccgcctcccaggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaattagctgaaattacaggtgttcgccactatgcccagctaatttttactatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggtcaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcaaatgatcctcctgcctcagcctgccaaagtgctgggattacgagtgtgagccactgcacccgacctaatttttgtatttttgtggagatggggtttcaccatgttgcccaggctggtctcaatcacctgggctgaagcaatccacctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcataggccaccgtgcctggccCCAACCTTCACTTTTAAAATAAGTGATTGACATTAGAATAGATTGTGTTAAAGGTATTAAGTAATGCTATTTTATAAGTAGCTGGTCTATTTTAGGCAAGTAGTTGAATTAATAGTGAGACAGTGTGAAGACACCTAAGTGTCTTCTGTCACTCACAGGCCCTGGAAGGTGCTTTGACCTGTGAATATCACTGAGACGCTGGAAGCCAGTGCCTTTTCCTACAGGAGGAGAGGCAGGTGCTGCGGGATTGGTTGTGTTTGCAAAGTGATGACTGTAGCTGACGTAAGAATTATAGCCTGTCTCTCATGAGAAGATAGCTTTTCCTTTAAAGTTTTTCTCATAGAACATTGATTATAGAAGATAAGCAAAAAAAGAAAATAAAATGAAAACTGCGCGTGAACCCAGCACCCAGGAAAAGATGTTGTTTTTGTATTATTTCATCATACCTACACCTTCTCATGTAAATGTTTTTAAAGGTTTAAATCTGATTGGTACCTAACACTTTTTAAAGGCCATGGACAGTTTTATGGAGCTCAATGTCTTGCTCTTTTTTTTTTTGCAGTGCTGTCTGCTTCTTTTAAGAAATAAAAAGTTTATCTCCTACCTCTGCATCTCCTCCTCAGAATTCTCTCCAGAAGCCTTGTTCCTGTGGGCAACGCATCTCTGACCCGTTGGCAAGGCTGTTTTCTCTCCCTGGATTTCTCATGCTCACTCCCTTGCTTGTCTTGACCCCCCCCAGGGCCCCCAACTCCCACACATCTGTCCCTGGGGGCCTCCTTCCCAGGGAGTCCCGAGGCCGCCAGGGGTCCCGTCACTGGGTGGCTATGGGTGGCCTGTTGAGCACGAGGTCTTCTCCCTGCAGATCCTGATGGCCAGTGCTACGGTGGTGTCGCTTCTGCCCAAGATGAGGAGCCCCTGGCCTGCCCGGACGAGTTCGATGACTTCGTCACCTATGAGGCAAGTGGTTTTCACCCAGGAGCTTGGGGGAAGTCTGGCATCCACCTCTTCCTTTATGCCCTACAGCTCGTGCCTCCTGCCTCCGGGCTGTCTTCCGTAGAAGCTGGCGTGAAGGAAGGGCCTCCCGCCCTGTGTGCACCGTGGGGCTCTGTGGCTGTGACGGGAGGCCCACAGTTGTCTGTCCCACACGCCCTGTCAGCCTGGGCAGGAATCCTCCCCCAGGGCCTGTCGCCAGCAGAAGTGGGGTGGGCAGTGATGTCATGACCACCCGCTGCCAGGCTGGCAGGCACAGGCGGAGCAGAGGGCTTGGGAGGATTCCTTTTGTCAACTTGCAAATGATTTTCTGTGTTTGGGGATGCCTGACTAATGCCTGCCCCTGCTTGGCTGTCCTCCACCCTGCTCCCAGATGCAGCCAGGGTTGTCATGGTGACGTGGCGTCTCCTGTGTCTCCTGTCACTGTGGGTCCCTTGTTCTCAACATAGCTGGGGAGAGGGTCTTCGAGCACAGCCGTGGTCGACAGAGCGTAACCATGTCCGCCGGTCTGGAGGGTTAGATTCCAGGAGAGCCACGTGGCTGCAGCAGAAAATGCATGAAGTTGAACTTGAGCCCTTGGGGGCCGCCGGGAAGGTGGAGGTGGCAGCCGCCAGTCCTGGTCAGCCTGCTGCCGAGCAAGGGTACCAGAAGTGGGGCTGAGCTGCTGGCCGGTAGGGCCTGGGCTTCTCATGTCAGTCCTCTGAGCCCTGACTCCTCGAAAGCTGAGGCTGGCACAGGGTAGTTTTTGAGTTGCTTTTGGACGCCACTGTACCGTGGGAGCCATGGTATTATACTCAGTTCCCTGTTCCGAGAAGCTGCCCCAGGGATTAGTCACCCTCACCCTTGGGTGGGCAGCTTAACTTCTGCCCACACAGACCCTGGGGGTGGTTCTGCCTTACGGCGGTGTCCCAGTTATCAGCTGGGCTGCAGCTTCTGGGGCCAGGGCGCCCACCGTGGGTCCCATGTTTGGCCTTGGTGTGCTCTTTCTGCACGTGAGGCAGCAGTGAGGTGCTGGCTAAGAGGGCGTGTGGTGGGAGTTGGACCCTCTCGCATGGCTGCAGTGTGCAGAACGTGCTGGGAGACCCCAGGACTACAGACGGTGGCTCCTGTGCCCTGAGAAGGACCCGGCTTCTTCACGAGGAGATGCCCAAGGCTCTGCAGGGTAACCCAGAGCCCTTGGTCTGCAACGTCCGGGGAACTGTGTGTTCCTGGGCGTTCATGTGCCTGTGCACTCTTTCTCACGTGTATCCGTCTTTTTGTTCCCCTCTCATGTTTGTTAGGGCATTGTTGATTGTTTATATCCTATGTATGGTGCAGTggctgaagagtggcctctcaaaagatatgtccacccagcagctgtggatgtggccttatttggaaaaagggtctttgcggatgtagttcattaaggatctcaaggtgatatcatgctggtttgggccctaaatccagtgacaggtgtccctggaagacgggagagacacacagggggaagaccataggaagacagggcagagactgaccagagccagggaactcctggggctcccagaagccagcagaggcaaagatgcatcctctccgagagccttaggcaggagccagccctgctcacaccttggctttggacttcgggcctccagaactgagaggataaactggtgtttcttcacgccccgtggtctgtgctagttcgttatggcagccctggGCAGGGAAACCTTGAGTGACGTTACTCGAGGCACCAAAGGCACCAGTGCATTTTATCCTTAAAGGCCCACGTGGTCTGAAGGGTGTGGCCGAGCCTCACGCTTGTCACTTCAGAAGGGTGGGAACCTGACATGTCAGAGCTAATCCTTCTCATATTTTTAGATCCTGATTTCTTTTTTAGAATGGAAGAAAGTTTTTTGACttaaaaaaatgaatatgcttcatgttttagagcaattttaggtttacagaaaatggaacatagtgtagagcattccGGGATCACGTTACATGAttatttgttttgttttgtttgagacggtctgctctattactcaggctggagtgtggtggtacagtctcgatcttggctcaccacaaccttcgcctcctgcgctcaagtgttcttctttctcagcctttccagtggctgggaccacactcagtaaccaccacgcccagctgattttttgtattttttttttgtagagatggggtttcaccgtgttgcctaggctgctctcaaactcctgagttcaagcgatccacccgtcttggcctcctaaagtgctggtattacaggcgtgagccaccgcacccagcctgatatgttagtattagccaaagtccgtagttgagggttcactcttggtggtgtgtattccgtgttttgacaggtccacgattatagtgtcacagagtcgattcagtgccggctcatccctcacaccagcccccacaaccaccgatcctccgtgtctccacagctctgcctcttccagaacgccacggagctagaaccatctggcatgcagccttttcagatgcgcctctttcccttagtgaatacgcagttacctctcctccatgtcttGCTTTGCTTTTTAAGGGTGGGATGTAATTTTCCACAAAGTGGAGTTCGATACTGTGAAACTTATGGAAAATTTGCTCTTTTAAAAAACAGCTTGCACATCATGTCATCTTAAAAAAAAAAAGTCTAATAAAGATATGAGTAGGGAGTATGTGTTCCATCCAGATACCCTATTCGGGGACCCTCCACTGGTAGTCTTCAGGTAAATAAACCTttgattgattggttgattggttgattgattgatATTCTGAATGGTTCCAGTCAGACCCATTTCTCTTTACTGGGAGCATCGCAGTGCTCACACCGGGGTGGTCGGGTAAAATGTGCAGTTAGTCATGGCCGAGCTAGTGGGTCTGCTGGCTCGCACTGTTTTCCCAGGGATCCTTTCAGCAGGCAGCTTATAACGGGAAAGTTGCTGCTATGGTGTCTGAGTAAGTGGGGAGAGTAGAAGGGGATGGACTGTGGCGCCGCTGAGTTCCTGGGCATGGTGATGTCTGAGGATCTGAGCAGGTGGAGCCCAGGGGGTGGTGGGGCTGTTTGTCGGGTTTCTGGAAGAGCGAAGGGAAAGTCAGGGAGTGTAAGGCGCATCTCACAGAATCGTCGGGCCGCGCTCTCTCCCGTCCTCCCTCCTTCTCCCACTACTGGCGATGTCTGGAGCAAAGAGCTGCCTTAGTGAAATGATAGTGAAATGTGTCTTTTGTGCAAACCATTATCAGCTTAGGAAGCCAAAAACAAAAGCCACTCTGTTTTCAGCCCTGACTGACTAACCGTTTTTTAAACCAGCAAGGACACTTCCTGAACTTTGCCTTCCCCTCCCTGGGCAACACCAGCAGGAGGTTTATTAGAGCGTGTCTGGGAGCAGGTTAAACTTTCTCCTAGGTGGTGATGTGCCTCCAGGTGAGCGCACAGGCTTTGCAGAAACCCCAGCATGACAAGCAAGTAGGAAGGTGACATTGTTGTTTGAGAAAAGCCAGTGACCCGGTTGGGACGGAGACACGATGGGGAGCCGGTCTCCAACAGCATGCCCTTCCTGAAGGTGTGTACAGAGCCAGGCCCAGCCTGTGAGGCCACCCGGGCCAGCATCTGAGGGTAAGAGGAGGCAGTAGTGTGCACTGTGCCCAGTATTCCTATTTCTGTGGTGGAGAGAGGCTCAGGGAAGAAGGAACTGTGACGGGGACAGTGTTGGCCCCACTTGAGTTACTGATGGCCCTGAACGGGCTTTTTCTCTGTCCGCTGGTGATTTAGGGGACTTGTTAATTAGTGAATGTAACGTTTCAACATAGCGACGTTTTCCAAGATGCACTTTGATTTTCAAGCGAGTTCATCTTAACATTGGTAATTTGTAAAAATGTTAAAAAGTTGGTAGCATAGACTTGATGGCTTCTGGGCAAGGCCAGGTCCTGGCTGGCTGGCAAATAAAATAAACTGCCGGGGCCGGTGTGAGCTGTTACTGCATTTTATCCAGGAGGCCGGGAGTGAGCAGGCACCGTGCTCTGAGGTACATTTTTGTCTCTGGAAAGGCAGGTGATGGCTGCCCTGGAAAACTCCATGTAGGGAGGCCTTGAACTGCAGAAACCAACCCGCAGGGCTGAATTGGGAAGTGAGCAGGTGGGGTGGCTCCTGTGAGCCTCATGAGCTGTCTGGAACCCCCAGGGCATCCAGCCGGCCAGGGGCTCTGAGTATCGATGGCGATGGCATGGAAGTGGACGTCCACAACCCCAGAGCAAATAAAGGGGTGGGTGCAGTCACCGAAGCCGCTGAGGAGTGGAACTGTTCATCTCTGTGGGATCTACAGTGCACGGAGCCACTCTGCAATGGCAGGGAGGCCCGGCTTACtttattttttattttttaaattgttttttgagatggagtctcactctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatcttggctcactgcaacctccacctcccagattcaagtgattccatgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcgcccgccaccacacccagctaatttttgtatttttaggagaaacagggtttcaccatattggccaggctggtctcgaactcctggcctcaagtgattcacccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagtgagccactgcgtctggccCTCAGGCTTACTTTAGAAATGAGAAGGTGAAGGTGGGTCCAGAGCGGAGCGTGTGAGTTCCAGGCTTGGCAGGGTGCCCTGGCATCCAGCTTACAGGGAGTCTGAGTTTGTGTAGAATCTGCCTCATTGTTCCTGTGTCCGTGGAGAATTCTTTCCATCCCAAACCATCCTGTCTAAGCTCTGAGGAGGCACAGGTGGCTCTAAGGCGGCACTGGCTTTTGCCTGCAGGGGCACCATCCTCAGCTACAGGTCTAACAGGAACTTGGTGAAATAAGCAGGCCCCACTGCCCGGACCTCCCTCCCTTCGTAGGACAGATGCTCTGCTCAGGGCTCCATGAGCTGTTTGAGAGAAGGTGTGGGTTTGTTCTTAGAAACATCATGCTTTCTGTTGGGGACTTAGGGTCCACACTGGCCAGGGAAGGGCATCGGGCATCTGTCAGAAGTACCAGTCCATTGACTTTTTAAAAGCTGGTCCAAggtcaggtgcggtggctcatgtctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacccgggaggtggagtttgcagtgagccgagattgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcaagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaagaaaaaattttaggctgggcatggtggctcaggcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggcagatcacaaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctgaccaacacggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagttgggtgtggtggcgtgtgcctgtaatctcagctactcaggaggctgaggcagaatcacttgaacctgggaggtagaggctgcagtgagctgaggtcacaccattgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcaagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattagtcaggcattgtggcaggcgcctgtaatccctgctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttggacctgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccaagatggcgccactgcactccagcctcggcgacaagagcgagactctatcaaaaaaaagaaaaaagaaaTTTTAGGCTACGTACTGAACCACTGAACCTGATGTTGTAATAACCACACTTTTTAGAGTCAGCAGCGGGTCTTCCTGGTGCCCCTGGGGTGAGTCTTTGTCACTGATGACTCTGGGGCAGTGTGGCCCCTGTGAGTGTGCAATCCTGTTGGGGTAGCTGGCAACTGCCCTCAAACCGTCTCGGACCTGTGCGCTGGGCTTCGCATCCTGCCCCGTCATGCCTTCCCCACAGGCCCAGCCTCTGACAGACATCCTGGGCCTGCCTGCTTTCCTGGCCACTCCCGCCTTTTCCTGCCTGGCGTCCCGCAGGCCCAGCACAGGCCAGCCCTGTCCTGAGTGGGCCCTGGGCCCTGCCGTCCTGCAGGAGTGGGAGCTGCCCAGGGACGGTGAGTAGCACGAGAGCTGGGGTTTCTTACAGTGCTCTCCTGGTTCTGGATGTTACAGTGGATGCTCTTGAGGAATGACTTAGTTTTTATGAATTACTTCCTTAGATTGTAGGGGAGATTATAATTGGACACCCAGAGTAGGTACACTTCACAGCACTCCCTGTTCCCTTGTGGCTTTAGAAGCAGCTGGCAGGGATTTCCCACCCACCAGTGACACTCGCACCCTGCAGTCCTTGTTTctgtgctttgaaaagcaccttcctgggttgtctttcttggttccatgaggtggccaccttgtgagacgagaatttataacccccgtttgcggcagggctccaggtggttgagtcacacgtctgaggtcacacggcttttaataaaggggccaaagatggaactgcggcctcccGCAAGTGCGCCAGGCTCCTGGCAGCTCGGCCTGGCCCTTCACGTCTCTTCCAGTGAGGCTCAGGTGGGTGCAGCCTGGGGTGGGACCCTCTGGTAGCCCTCGCAGGTCTTAGCACACTGTCTACttcttttttttttttttttgagatggagtcttgctctgttgccaggctggagtgcagtggcatgatcttggctcactgcagcctctgcctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgtctcagccccccgagtagctgggactgcaggcacgtgccaccacgcctggctaatttttgtattttcagtagagatggggtttcaccatattggctaggctggtctcgaactcctgaccttgtgatccacccgcctcggccttccaaagtgctgggattacaggcattaaccacggcgcccagccACTTTGTCTGCTTCTTACGATACTAGAACTAGAGTGCAAAGGGCATCTTTTTCTGCTGGGACTGCAGCTTTTCTGAGATCTTGTTTATTTGCAAATTGTTAACCTCAGAGTCTTCTGAGCATGAAATGTTGGCCACTTTTCCTAACCAGCAATTTCATTTTCATTAAGGTTGAAATTATAAATTGAAAATGTTggctgggcacggtggctcacgcctataatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggcagatctcttgaggccaggagttcaagaccagcctgggcaacatagcaaaacctcgtctctacaaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcacagtggtgcatgcctgtaatcccagctactttggtggctgagacacaagaatcacttgaatccggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagatggtgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagtgagaccctgtctcaaaaaacaagaacaattagaaaaagaaaaaaaaaGTTCTGTTTAATAGTTCTTTAGTTTTGTGTTCATTTGTATGATCCACAAATATTTACTATCTACCTATACCTGGTCCTATGCTAGATGCTAGATACTTAAGAGTAAAAACAagttgggtgtggtggcttatgcctataatcccagcacttcgggaggctaaggcaggcagatcacttgagctcaggagtttgggactagcctgagcaacatggcaaaaccccatctctacaaaaaaatacaaaatcagcgaggtgtggtggctcacacctatagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggtaggaggattgcttgagcccaggagtttgaagctgcagtgagccaagaccgcacgactgcactccaacctgggtgtcacagtgagactctatctcaaaaaaaacacagcagtaaaaacagtaaaaACAATTGGTTgcgatggctcacacctgtaatctgagcagtgtggaggatcacttgaggtgcggagtggatgaccagcctgggcaacagagtgagaccctgattcaaaataaataaatcaacaaacaaacaaacaactgagccaggtgtggtggcacctgtagttcccagctacAGCTAGATCCTGTCTCTATTTTATTAAAATAAAAAAGAAATTACTCTgccaggctcagtagctcacacccatagttctagcactttgagaggccaaggctggtggatcacttgagcacaggagttcaagacagcctggaaaacaaggcaaaactccatttctacaaaatttcaaaaaattaggcatggtggcttttacctgtggtctcagctactcaggaggctgaggtgggaggatcacttgagcccaggagatcaaggctgcagtgagctgagattacaccattgcactccagcctgggtctcaaagagagacactgtctcaaacaacaacaacaaaaaTTACTCAGAGTACCTTGTTTTCTGCTCTCAGACATGTACCTATTTTTCATTTAAAAAAAAGTTGAATTCagccaggcacggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggtggatcacctgaggttaggagttcgagactggcctggccaacgtggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaacccaaaaattagtggcgtggtggcacgcatctataatcccagctactcaggagcctgaggcaggagaatcttttgaacccgggaggtgtaggttgcagtgactggagattgcaccactgcactccagcctgggcaggaagagtaaaactccttctccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTTGAATTGTGttttattcattttattttcatttttgaaatagaggctcactctgtcgcccaagctggagcttaatggcatgatatcagctcactgcaaaatctgcgtcccaggttcaagccattctcctgcttcagcctcctgagtagttgggattacaggcatgtgccaccacacttggctaattAtatttatttatttatttatttttgagacggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcaattcactgcaacctccacctcccgggttcaagcgattcttctgcctcagtctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgcccgccaccacacctggctaatttttgtatttttagtagggacagggtttcaccattttggccagactggtctcgaactcctgaccttgtgatctgcctgccttggcttcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccactgcgcccggccTGTAtttatttattttaattttttttttttcagacagagttttgctcttgttgcccaggctcgagtgcaatggagtgatctcagctcaccacaacatccacctccctggttcaagcaatttgcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggatacaggagttcgccaccacacccggctaattttgtattttcagtagagacggggtttttccatattggtcaggctggtctcgaactcccaacctcaggtgatccttctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagtcgtgagccattgcggccagctGttatatttatttttaattaattaatttttttgagatgggtctttatcactcaggttggagcacagtggtgtgatcacatctcactgcagcctcgaccttttgggctcaaatggtcctcctggctggcgctgtggctcactcttgtaatcccagcactttggaaggctgaggtgggtggatcacctgaggtaaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactagaaatacaaaacttagctaggcatgatggtacatgcttgtcttcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacacaggccacgtaggttgcagtgagctgagatcatgccactgcgttccagtctgggcgataagagtgagaccctgtctcaaaaaaaaacccccaaaaaacaaaaagcaagctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctacaggcaggtgccaccacacctgggcaagctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctacaggcaggtgccaccacacctgggcaagctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctacaggcaggtgccaccacacctggGCAAGctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctacaggcaggtgccaccacacctgggcaagctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctacaggcaggtgccaccacacctgggcaagctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctgcaggccggtgccaccgcacctgggcaagctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctgcaggcaggtgccaccgcacctgggcaagctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctgcaggcaggtgccaccgcacctgggcaagctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctgcaggcaggtgccaccgcacctgggcaagctcctccatcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctgcaggcaggtgccaccgcacctggGCAAGctcctccgtcagtctcttgagtagctgggacctacaggcaggtgccaccacatctaggtaagttttgtatttttggtagagacaaatttcactttgttggccaggctggtcttgagctcctgggttcaagcgatccacccaccgaggcctccgaaagtactgggattacaggcgtgagtcaccgcgcccagccTGAATTGTGTTTTATAAGTAATGTCTCTGCTTAGAGACAGTTGGGACTTCAGGCGTCAGACCCCTCCCTCCACACTGCCCTCTCCAGGGCCTTGCAGCAGTGAGGTGTGGGGCGTTCGCAGTTCCCCTCCCAGCTTGTGCCCGCTGACTGCTGGCGCACTCTCTCCTAGGCCAACGAGGTGACGGACAGCGCGTACATGGGCTCCGAGAGCACCTACAGTGAGTGTGAGACCTTCACGGACGAGGACACCAGCACCCTGGTGCACCCTGAGCTGCAACCTGAAGGGGACGCAGACAGTGCCGGCGGCTCGGCCGTGCCCTCTGAGTGCCTGGACGCCATGGAGGAGCCCGACCATGGTGCCCTGCTGCTGCTCCCAGGCAGGTCTGTACCCCGCCACGGGCCTCCTGGAGAGGCCTTGGGATGTGGCACCCTGTGGAGGTGTCTGATGGGCAGACTGGGGTCTTGGAGGAGTGCGTGCTGGTTAGCATCCATTATGTGGGGGTGGGGCTTGGCCCTGCAGTAGCTCCTGACCTTCCTGGGATGAGCCCACACCGTCCTGCCCGCCTTGCCCGAGCAGTCTCCCTGTTCCAGCTGACTTTCCTGTCAGGACGACTGTGGTTTCAAATGTTGCTCAACATCTTTAGCTGTAGAGATAGAAATTATAGAAGTGAATGTCTCGGCAGGGTTTTGGAACCCGTTCACCTTTGCAGCACCCCTGAGGAGGCCATGTTCTCTCCCCACCTGTCCCCCACCCTCAGGATTTCTGTAGCCCCCGTATTTCGAGCTAGTTGGGGCCGGAGTAGAGGGACGGGCAGAGTCTGGGAGAAGGTCAGATGAAGGAGGTGTCCAGTGGCTCACGTGGACCTGCTTTCCGTGTTGCCCCTGCTACTGGAAAGTCCGCTCAGCACGCTGAAGTGTAATtgtgaagcaaaaattaaattctcagccttcagccaactgatggaccccctctctcagcctcaggcgttgctcagtcaacctgaaaatgtagttcaggccatggttagggaggtcaggcaggcctcattgggcccctccctttggaactgaggcccagctgaccagcattcacattaaacagactctgacaaaggcggactttttatagcagcgacagcacaccacattccagcctgactctagtgtagcatcacatgacaggtggcaggccctgaaagaaatccgagtattttaccccaaaatagatttctttgacatttttcagaatggctctacaggactgtgtcttgtggggaaagtctgcaccctgtagagaatctcctcccttcccaggtcttttccctggtgcaggagggaattaactcggagtctggcaccttgtgaggtctgctgcctgctgcctggaggcctcatctgcttgataaagccttggtctccacagccccttatcttaagccgaggcattcctttctattgattccaagtctttagataataactctttcaaacaaacaactgccagtcagaagatcttcgcatctgctttgacctggaagcccgcccgtcccccgcttagagccgtcccatgtttcctgactgaagcagcatcttgcatgtagggttgatgtcttctgtctccccaagatgcataaacccggcccttgggcacatgctctcagggcttcctggggcggcatcacgggctgttagtcactcttatctggctcagaataaacctcttcaaatattttacagagcttaagtctttttgccaacaTAATATACCCACAAGTAAGTGCCCATGTTGTAAGTGCACAGCCAGCAGGTTTTTCAAACTGACCATTCCCACGGCCCTTTTCTCAGGCAAGAACAAAACACTCCCGCACCCAGGGTCCTCCCAGGCCCCTGACAGCAGCCAGCTCTCCACCGGCCCTGCATCTTCCTTAAGTTCCCCCACACAGGGAGGTCCTTCCTGTGCCTGGCTTCTTCCACTTGCTGTTGCGCTTGTGGATTTAGCCAtttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatctcagctcactgcagcctccgcctcccaggttccagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgggtagctgggattacaggcgcccgccaccacgcccggctaatatttgtattttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggtcaggctggtctccaacccctggcctcaggcgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccgaagtgctgggatgagaggtgtgagccaccgcgtctggccGTATTCAGCCCTATTTTTGTGCATTGCTGTAAACTGTTGACTTTTATGATTCTATTGCGAGAGCGTGCTGCGACTCTAGAGTTGACTCTCCTGTCGGCGGCAGCGGGTAGTTCACTGTCGTTGGCTTTGAGGGTGAAACTGCTGTAGGGATTCCATGTCTTTGGGAGCATGGTACGGCCCTAAGCAGGATGGTCATCGGGAGCACGTCCCTTCAGCCTTGCAAGTTCCTGCAGGGGCTGCAGGGTCACCAGCCTCCGGCATCTGTGGCTCCTGGGCTCCCTGACCTCAGCAGCATGTGGCCATGTCTGCTCTCCTGCTCACCTTGTGGGGGGCATGCAGAGACCCTGCCACATGCTTTTTACTTGCGCTTCCCGGGTGACTAATAAGGCATGCACCTTTTGTCAGGGTGGGAGCTCCTCTGCCTGCTCACTGCTTGCGGGaggggtctgcagactttttctctagaagagttgcaggccacgcagcccccgtggcaactgctcagcccggctgttgtgctgcagaagcagccaaaggcacgtgggtcagtgagcgtggctgtgtcccagtgaaacaattttcagaaacaggctgcgcaggattggcaggacttggcctgcccctggtctgttgggtcctCtgtctttttctcactgattataggagtcctttcgatatgagtcccttatggggtgtgggtatcacagatcctttttgctgctctgtgggtctccttttcaccttttgaggaacagatttttgtttctgtttttttgtcaagatggagtctagctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgccatcttggctgactgcaacctctgcctcccaggctcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaggtagctgggattacaggcacctgccatggcgcccagctaatttttgtagttttagtagagacagtgtttcaccatcttgcccaggctggtctcgaactcctgaccttgtgatccacccacgttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccacagcccctggccagaacagatgtttttaattttgctatagttgagcttatccatttttcttttatgtttattagcacttttgtgtcccacttgataaatctttgcttactacacagtcactatgatgtttacttacgctttcttttaaaagtgttattgttttaccttcatattcagatctgtgatcGCTACATAAtttttttattttgttttgctttgttttgagacagtcttgctgtgtcacccaggctgcagtgcagtggcacaatcttgggtcactgcagtctctgcctcccagattcaagtgattctcttgccttagcctcctgattagctgggactactggcgcccgccaccatgcctggctaatttttttgtatttttggtagagatagggtttcgccatattggccaggttgacctcaaactgccagcctcaagtgatctgccctccttggcctcccaaaatgctgggattacaggcgAGTATTTTCTCACTAGTTTTTAAGCAGTATAACTCTTggtggggcatgcctgtaattccagccctttggggggccgaggcaggtggatcatgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacttggtaaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaactagctgggcctggtggcacgcacctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccagagaggcagagtttgcagtgagccgagatggcaccactgcatttcagcctgggcgacagagcgagactctatctcaaaaatgaaaacaaaaGTATAACTCTTTTGGGGGACACACATTTTGAACAGCTCATTTGTGGCTGGATCTAACTGCTAGCTAGCGCGGCTCATCTTCTGTGGACCGTGGAAAGCACGTTGGGCGTCTGGGTGCAGACCGTCCGGTTCATACAGTCTCTGCCGTGTGGCCTGGGCCTCTTGGTCCTCAGTGTGACGTTGCATGTGGGCCTTCTCTGTTCCCGTCAAGCATCAGGAAGAAGTGTCCTGAGGAGAGGAGGAGATGGGGTGGTGAGGGGTGCTGAGCCCCTCGTCATTGCTTCTGAGGGAGTAGCAGGTTTCACCATGGTGGCCCGGGGAGGCGGGGAAGGGCCTGCTGGCCGATGGACCAGTGTGTGTTTTCCTCTCGCTGATTCTCCTCCCCTCAGAGGGCAGTTTTCTGTCACAGTATCTGAGCCTGTTGGTAAAACAAGCACCCAATCATAAGAAACAGAAAATAAGGTCTTCCTGTAACGTAGCCTAATTTTAGATGGCGGCTGTGGAAGGGAGCCACACCTCCCTGTCACTGTGTAGGAAGGAAGGGGCTGATGCAGACAGGCAGCGCCAAGTTGAAGACCCTATTGGGAGGCCATGAAGTGGCACAGGCCTCCTGGttttggtttctttttttttttttttttgagacggaatctggctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgccatctccgcctcccaggttcacaccattctcctgtctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcacccgccaccacccccaggtaattttttgtatttttagtagagacagggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgatctgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccgcccccggccCTGGTTTAAGCCTGCGTGTTTGAGGCCATGGGATTCATCCTGAGCTGTCCCAGCAGTGGTGCGTGGTGGGCATTTCTGCGGGTGTGAAATTGGAACTCCTCACGGCTGAGCACAGTGGGTCCGGGCGGAGCAGAGCGCGCGGTCCTCCTGACTCTGCCCCCTTCTCCTGGGCACGAGGAGTCGCCTCACTCTGCCAGGCCCCTTTCTTTCCTGGAGTGGAGCAGCGCCGGGCCTGCACAGAAGGTTCTCCCGAGGACTCCTGCGGGAGGGTGGGAGTGGGGACCGCTAGGGCACAGGAGCCGCTGAAGGCACAGCTGTTTCACATGGCCCCCGGCCGCTGTGTTTTCCAGAACTTGGCTGTGGAGGAGTCACTCCCTTCAGAAGGAGGGTGGGTATTTGGAAGCCCCTTCCTTTCCCTGTCGCAGCTGCTGTTACGTTTTAGCTTAAAGTAGAGTTTGAACGGCGCCCCCCAGTGGTTGTGTGAGGACAGCAGCTCCCTAGGGAAGAGGCAGAGGTGCTTGAACCCAGATGCTGCTTTGTGTCGACCTGTGCTGTCCTGTGTGGGGCTGCGGAACTTGTGACGTGGGAGGGCACACGAGTGAGGAGTGTGAAGAGGCTGGAGGTTTTGAAATGACTGCGTGTTGGGCTAAGTAAAATTTTTTGTTAAAATATATTCGggccaggcgtggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaacactttgggaggccgaggtgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggtggaggcaggagaatgacgtgaacccgggaggcggagctggcagtgagccgatattgcacgactgcactccagcctgggcgatagagccagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaggtaaagaaaCAGAtttatttatttattttttttttttgagacagggccttgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgtagtggcatcatcactgctcactgcagccttggcctcccaggctcaagcgatcttcccacttcagcctcccgagtacctgggactacagtcgtgcgcatccatgcctgggtgatttaaaaatgttttttgcagttgaggcctccccctgttgcccaggctggtctcaaactcctgagctcaagccatctgctcgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacatgtgtgagccaccgcatccagccCACTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTAAACGTGGCTCCCAGGACTCACGTGTGGCTTGTAGCACACCCTATGGAAAGCACCTTCCACACCCTCAGCTCGGGGGTGCCCTGGCCTTCAGTCAGAAGACATCATTTCTGTTTTACTTTGCAGGCCTCACCCCCATGGCCAGTCTGTCATCACGGTGATCGGGGGCGAGGAGCACTTTGAGGACTACGGTGAAGGCAGTGAGGCGGAGCTGTCCCCAGAGACCCTATGCAACGGGCAGCTGGGCTGCAGTGACCCCGCTTTCCTCACGCCCAGGTAATGACGCCTTGTTCCAGCACACCCTCCTCCCTCTTCTTCCCGTGGTTAGTAGTGGGAAGTTTCCCTTTTTGGTTCGTGCATTGGTGAGAGAACTTGCTTTCCTTGACGTCATGTGATTAAGTAAACCATATTCAAACATTTTAAATTTATACCTGGATTTATGAAAGTTGGGAGAAGTCCCTCTTCTCCAGCCACATCCCCAGATCACTCTACATTTCTGAGGCTTCAGCAAAATCCTGTGGCACAGAGCTGTGTTTGCACACTTGGCTTGCGGGCTCCTTTGCTGTGGGCCGTGGATCACATGGTGGTCTGTGCAGGCTTTTGAGGGAGGCCTCATGATCATAAGTGAGTCTTCAGATTCATTTCCTTATAAATATCTGACATCCCCAAACTGGAAAGCTGTGACTCTGAATAAATAGAAGCACAACACGCAGTGGGCGAGATGCCCACTCACAAATGTCCAGAGTCACTCTAGGGAGTCCAGAGTCCTCTTGGCTTGGATCCGAACATGGGGGTCTGGGTACGTACTTCTGAGGGCTAGGGGCTCCCACGTGGGAGTCAGTCCCTCTAGGACGCTCCTGACTTCAGGGAGACCCTGGGCTGGCCGATGGGGTTGTTACTTCAATCCCTTCTCCCCTTTGCTACTAGGTTGTCGTCCATCTTTGCCAGCAGTCAAGGCCGAGCCTCTTTAAGCAGCCACAAGAGTCTTCCCTTGCCTGCTGCCCGCCCGCTGTTACTGAGGCCCAGGGAACCTGGGTGGAGGGCGGTGCAGGAGGGGCTGAGCAGCTCGTCTGCCCATAGGGTCCCCCTCCTTTTGTTTCCCATGTGCCCTCCTTGAAGCCGCCCGTCAGCCCTGGGTGTGGGGACCCTGCACGGATATCCTGTGTGCTCTGGTCCCGGCGAGCGTCCTGGGAGAGCTGTGCATGAGTGAGGCATCACAGACGGTCCTCAGAGGCAGTGTGCTTGTCTTAGGCACTTTCCTCTCCCAGCGCGTGGTGGTGTCAAGACAAGGGCCAGAGGACTGGGGCGTTTCTAAACTTGGGTCTCTGTGCTTGGTAATCACCTCTTCCTACGTGTTTAGTTTGTCCCTGTCTCCTGTTCAGTGTTTTCATTGTTACCTGTTTGAAGTGTAATGTCTATGCTACATTGTATGTTTCACTTTTCACCTTTCTTTACTTGAGCTTCCAAATGGTTTCCCACAGCATGTGGGTCCCAGCGCCCGCGATGAGGCTGCCTTTGCTCCTTTGCCTTCGCGTCGCAGACGCAGCACCCCTGCCAGTGGCCCAGAAGCCCTTGGAGGTGAAGTCACAGGGAGGTTAGCTAGCACCACCACAAAATCTAACACTGAGTTTCGACAGGTCGGTCTTTTTGGGGGttttttgagacaggatctcactttattgcccaggctggagtggtgcaatcatggctcactgcagcctccacctccctcagcttcctgagtagctgggactacaggtatgagctactacgccgggctaattttgtattttttgtagagacgggttcaccatgttgcccaggctggtctcaaacgcctgagctcaagcgatccacccaaagtgctggaattagaagcaggagccaccatgcccggctTTAACGCACATCTTAAAAAATCACAAAACTATTGTAGATTTATCATTCATGCATAGTTTTTGCTAGAGGTGGTTTTTGGAGTAATCATAAATATAGTACAGTAAGTACAAGTTTACCCGGAGACATGGTTCGCTATCACATTGATGTGTTTTTGGCAAAAGAGAAAGCAGTATGGTTTTTTACCTTCTTGTTAAAGAAGGGCTTTTGCTTTGCAAGGAGGCTCTCAGGCTGCCCCTGCTTTCTTCTGGGCACCCGACCCAGAGGAGCAGGTGTGTGCAGGGCCCCCTGAGGCTCGAGCTGGTGCCTGTCCTGGGCTCCTGGAGGCAGCTGAGGGATGTGGGCTCACTGCGGTCTAAAGGCAAGAGCCAGAACATTGCACAGCTCATTCTCTCTCCACGTGCTTTTGTTCCACACCATGTCCTGTCCTGTTCCCCTCGGCCCCTCGTGCGGAGTCACAGATGACCACACGGGTCCTCATCCTCTCCTGAACGGATGCTTCTGTCTCTCTAGCACTGACCCTCTTGCCGCAAAGCTGCACAGCATCCTCACTGATGAGGCGTTTGAGTTTTACTGTAGCCAGTGCCACAAACAAATCAACCGCCTTGAGGATCTTTCTGCCCGCCTGAGTGATCTTGAAATGAATAGGTAACTGACCAGCGCCTGGCCTTGCTGTCTGTTCCCAGGGTGTGGGGGACTCCGGATACCCACAGCCCCCTTGAGGGCCTGCCCCGAGGCGACCAGGAGCCTCTCAGGCAGCGGGACTCTCCCTGGGGCCCCGCCTCCCACCCTGCACGCTGTGGGGCCACCAGGGCCCTGCCTCCTCCCCTGCATGCGCAGCCCAGGCCAGTGCTTGTCTTGGTGGGAGGAAGTGATCGGTCTTTGCAAGCTGTGCTGTCTGTCCTGTGTGTGAAAGAGGATACTTTCTGCATTTTACTAAAAGATTTCTTTCATTGAGCTCATGAGACAGAATTGGGAAAGTTAAAGATTTAGTCTTTAAGAACAGATATGTAAACAGCTTTCAGGATTGTCAGTTTAAATGGAGTTTTGAATACTCACAGTGAGCGTGTGAGGGAGCTCACTGTGTCTCAGCAGGGGAGCTCTTGTGGCTGGCCCTCATGTCTAACTCCCAGTTACAGAAGACGGTTTTGAGTGCTTTGCACATATTGACGTGCCCGTTGGGCATCGTGTTGATTTCGCTTGCGGTGAAGCCCCTGGGTGGGCAGCTCTCCAGAAGGGTCTGGTGAAGAAACGGGCCACTTTGGAGCTTTCCACAGCAGCCCTAGCCTAGCAGAAGAGGTGAGTGAGCATACAGGCTCATGCTGGCAATCTGGGACGGCTTCCTGAAGAACGGGACCTGGCCTGTGGGGAGGGTTTGTAAAGGTGGCAGAAAGGTGAGTTATCCTGACGGTTCTAGCATGTTTAGAGGTATCTGTGAAACTGCTTACCTGTCTTGAGCCTGCCCTGTCCCTGCCCCAGGGGGCTTCTGCCGAGGCACATCCTTGCTGGCGGGCGCTCACTGCCCACGGCCTTATTGAGGCTTCTGTCCTGCCTCTAGTTCCATTTCCAGGGCACTTAACTCTTCTTATGTTCTGTGAAATGCTGTGAAGCACAGGGCCCCCAGCCAGTGCCCATTCAGGTGGAGAGGATGGGGGTGGGGCCCGGCACTGATGGCCATTCTGGAGCATCGGGGGTCTTGGCAGCACTGGTGAGAAAGCAGAAGTGCTCTTTGAAGAGGGTCTTCCCGGGAGACCCGAGGCCGCCCAGAGCCCTCCCCGGGAGACCCGAGGCCGCCCAGGGCCCTCCCCGGGAGACCCGAGGCCGCCCAGGGCCCTTCCCGGGGAGACCCGAGGCCGCCCAGGGCCCTCCCGGGAGACCCGAGGCCGCCCAGGGCCCTCCCGGGAGACCCGAGGCCGTCCAGAATCTTGGATTCCAAAGATCCGCTAACCTCTGTTTTAGGGGAAATCAGTTTCTGCCTGCGTGTGTGTTCAGCTAGGGGTTCAAGGCCCGGCGACGATGGCTCAGCCTGCTTGGGGAGGGGCCATTTGTTCTTCCCACGCAGAGACTTGCCCTCCCACTCACCGATAAGTTGAGTGCAAGCATGTCATCTCCGTACATGAAAGTAAGCCTGAAGACTCAGGTCTCGTCTCTCATTTTCTGAAGATTTTTGACATAGAACTGATTTTTTCCCACATTGAGAACTAGCTCCAAGATGGCCATGGTCGCCTCTGCTGGGCTTTGTGGGGGCAGAGAAGGGACTAGGATGTAGCTAAGTACAACTAGCAAGTCCTGTGGAGCCTCACGTCCAGGTTCTGCTACCCCTTTTCCTAAGACTCTATGAAGCGggccaggcgcagtgactcacgcctgtaatctcagcattttgggaggctgaggaggcaggcagatcacttgaggccaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatggcgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaacataaaaattagccaggcatggtggcacatgcctgtagttccagctacttgggaggctgagatgggaggttcacttgaacccaggaggtggaggctgtggtgagccaacatcctgccactgcactccagcctgggcaacagagccaaactctgactccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaCTCTACCAAGTGGTTAATATGCTATTCAATTCAACACAATCAGGACACACAACTGCCAGTCAGAACATCCTCCCCATAACCCTTAGTGGAGGAGATCTGAATCTTGCGTTTTAGTTTCCATGGACTTGCCTGAAAGTAAGCTTATTTGGTCATGCTTTGTGGGTGGCAACAGGTGACTTAGTCCAGACCACCTCTGGAAGCTTTGATGTCAGATACGATGTCCAGTCGCCTCAGAACAGGCCAATAGCTGTTGCATTTTCCAGGTACCCTGCAGCCTCTAAATACATTTCATTTTGTAGGAACTAAGAAGTGTGCCTTACCTGGAGGTATAttttcttttttcttttttttgagacagagtctcgctttgtgacccaggccggagtgcagtggtgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcactccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccatcaccacacctggctaacttttgtatttttagtagacacggggtttcaccatgtctcaatctccggacctcgtgatccgcccgccttgaccccccaaagtgctgggattacaggctgagccactgcacccagccTGCCTGGAGGTATAttatctttttcttttttgagacagagtctcgatctgtcacccaggctggagtgcggtggtgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcactccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccatcaccacacctggctaacttttgtatttttagtagacacagggtttcaccatgtctcaatctccggacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccgcacctggccACCTGGAGGTGTATTTTCAATTATAAATCCTGTTGCTGGGCTGCCAGTCCAGGCCCTGAAAGGTCAGTAGGTAAACTGAACGATGAGTCTGTCCTGTCCTATTAGTTCTAGGGAGTCTCAACAATAATAAGATAAAATTAAATTTGTATTAAggctgggtgcggtggctcatgcccgtaatcccagcactttgcgaggctgaggtgggcagatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatataaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggccggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggtggaacttgcagtgagccgagatcatgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacacagtgagactccatcttaaaaaaaaaaaCCTGTATTAAAATATACATTATTAGTCtccagtcgagaaaggagagccacacagtaatttgaacagggacagtttaatactacaaagaatgggctgagtgtgggctgaaatcgcagtgctttgggaggctgaggtgggaggatcacatgagccggggaggtcgaggctgcagaggtgggaggatcacatgagcctgggaggtcgaggctgcagAGGTGGGAGGATCACATGAGCCGGGGAGGTCGAGGCTGCAGAGGTGGGAGGATCACATGAGCCGGGGAGGTCGAGGCTgctgaggtgggaggatcacatgagccggggaggtcgaggctgcTGAGGTGGGAGGATCACATGAGCCGGGGAGGTCgaggctgcagaggtgggaggatcacatgagccggggaggtcgaggctgcagcgagctgtggttgcaccactgcacttcagcctgggccacagagtcataccttgcctctaagaaaagataatgcaaacaaacaaacaaaaaATTTAAAAAATCATTAGGGAAAGGAAAAGAATGTCACAGGCTATGGGAGTAATGAGGCACTGGTTGGGATGAgtaaaaagaactctgcagagtgtagggacagcaggcacaggagcagccgccacccagggccggggcagagccccccagctacagtcactgccacccagggctgaggtcTGCACCAGCTGCAAACGGCGTGGTGGGGACACCACCGTGCTGTCAGGGCTTGTGGGGAACCTGCCTCCTGGCTGCCAGGAAAGCTATTCTGTTGCAGGACACTTGGCAGAGGCACCCCTAGAGAACAGCTACCCGAATGGGGTCGGGGAAGCCCCTGGCTCTGGCTACAGTGGGCAGGATGCTCCCTGGAGTAGGTACTGGGGAGACTGCAGGTGTCGGAGGGCCCTGCAGAGAGTGGTCAgaaccaggaggcaaacctcttcctgctgtgttcactcctcggctccctctgctgatgacacgcagcattgtggaggaagagcctgctaagggcccagctctgtttctacagggcaagtaaaaaggatggacttagagctgaggggctctacgttaatacctggcacaGCAGCTGATTCTCCTCCAGTAGAtttctttttttctttgagacagagtttcactctttgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcggctgactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagcgagtctcctgtcccagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcgccaccattcccggttatttttgaatttttagtagagacagggtttctccacgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcccgacctctggagatccacccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctcagattgtaggcatgagccaccacgcccggccCCTCCAGTAGACTTTTCTGCCTGACCCTGGAAAGAAAATCAGAGGTGTTTTTGAGACAGGTAAGCTGAAGAGAGACGTGGCTTTGTGAGTTCCAGGACCGTGATGGTTCCCAGGCCCCAGGGGTGAGGGTGTCTTCCTGCAGGCTGAGGCTAATAGTTCAGCAGCTAGACTGTAAAATACAACTTTGGACCTCAGAAATGAGGGAGAAGGTAAGTTTGGCCCATGTGCCACTGCAGATGGTTAAATCAGACAGCTGATGTATAATTGGCTATATTTACTGCCCTGAAATGGCAACGGGAAAGGTTTCCAAACTGATGCCTAGGCAGGCGTTCTGAGCATGATGCATCAGTGCCTGAGTCGAAGCCAGCGGCAAACTCTCCTGTCACAGCGGGGCCTGGGTCACTTTTCACTTGGGGGCCTCCGAAGGCCAAGCGTTTGGGGGTAATTTGGCTTCAGAAGCATTGGGACAGTGCAGCCAGCGGGTGGGACCAGGTGTGGCGCTGGCCTCTCAGTCGTGGTCTGGGGTGGCTGCATCTGGAAGCCTCTTTGGGGGCTGGAGTAACGAGACGTATGCGGCCTCACCCCAGCACTGCCGTGTCCTTGCTGTTTTGCTGAGTGAGCATTTGTGCATGGACTTGCCTGGGGGGCCCTGCATGCCGGGAGCATTGCTGAAAGGCCGCCCACCTCGTATCTCCACAGCCTGAGTTTCCTGCTTCCTCCTGCTCCTCTCTGTCTGTTCTAACAATTTTCCTGTTTATTTTGTTTTCTGCACAGTCCGACAAAGCGGCTCTCCAGCAAGAAGGTGGCAAGGTAGGTGGGTCTCTGGTTCCTGCTGAAAAACGTTCTGAAGTGGATAATTAATCATAGTTTTTTAAAAAACATTTTAAAATGTTCTTTTCCAAGGTATTTTTTAAACTCTTGCAAGTTACTTTACATGGTTTGGGGCTGAAGGTATCCTGAAGGAGTGTTGGGAAAGGGGTTTCCAGGGCTGTGAATTTGGACCTGGATTTGTGACCAGGGAGGGTACGTGTCAGAGCTTTTGGTGCTGGGCCTCTTGTGTGTTCACTAAGGTCTGGAAGGGGCCGCCATCCCCAGATGTCTGCTCTATGTTAGCTCTGAGGTAGCGAGACCCAGTGAGGAGCCTGGCTTCTCAGAGCCGGGTCTGGGCAGCTCCCCAAGGTGAGTCGAAGGTGAGGGATGGGTCTGACTCCAATTCCTAAAGACCATTTCTTCATTTTCCAGCTTCGTATAGATCTGTTGGCTTCCTGCTGTGAAAGATGGCAACATACACTTTTATCTTCCTCCCCTGCCAGTTCTTACCGAAATAAACATGCAGGGTTAAGGCCCTTCCCAGGGAGCCACTCAGTGTGGCTGCCGGGTGGCCTCTGCTGCCGTCAGAGTCTGCCTTTGTGTCTTTATCTGCTTTGCCTTCCTAGTCCCCGTCCTGCTTCGTGGCCCGGCATCTGGCAGGGCTGGGAGACGCCTCTCCAGCTTCCTCtggagcatcccctctggagcctcctctctgccctgttgtgccgggcgttctccaggcctcgtggctgtggtcctggacaggtctccccacactggtgggttcctttgtttcgggggttggatcctctagctccctggccccgtcttccttctcatttgttttctctggtttttgtccagcgtatcttcctgtagcttcttgagaaaagaggtgctcaggagataaacttGAGCTTGGGTTGGTTTGTACTGTGAGAGTGGGATCATTTTCCTGTAAGATTTTTGACGGCATTGCTTATCTTCTAGAGCTAAAGTTGTTACCATGAAGTTTAACCTTTCTGACTCGGTTTCtttgggaccagcctgagcaacttagtgaaaccctgtctctacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattaaaaattaaaaattaaaaaaaaaaaaGGAAaataggcaaggtctagctgcgttgcccaggctgtagtgcagtgagtggcaattcataggtgcaagcatagctcacaacagccccagactccctgggcttaagtaatctttccacctcagcctcccaaaattctcggattacagaggtaagccaccacacccagcCAAGAACAGAAACCttttgttttccattttcttttattttgagacattgtcttgctctgtcacctgggctgaagtaccgtggtgcaatcacagctcactgcagcctggacctctcaggctcactccatcctcccacctcctcctcctgaggacctgggactacaggtgcgcattgccaatgcctggctagtcttttaatttttaatagagatggagtttcactacgttgcccagactgatcttgagctcctgggctgaagggatcctcccaccttggcctcccaaagtactgggatcacaggcatgagccgtcacacctggccATGGATGAAAACTTTTTTCTTTTTGTTTCTCttctcttttcttggctttcttttctttttgagacagtcttgctctgtcttgctctgtgaagtgacatcatcacagctctcaatagttttcacttcccagacctcccaagctcaaatgatcctccctcctcagcctcccgagcagctgagaccacaggcgcatgccaccatacccagatgattttttaattttttgtagagacaggcccagactggtcttgaactcctgggctctagcagtcctcccacctcggtctcccagaatgttggaattacaggcaggagccaccgcgtccCACTTGTTTTCCATTTTCTGTCATTTTAGGGGCTAGGGGCTAGGGGCTAGAGGAAGCAGAGGTGAACGTCATCATGCATCTTTTTCTAACTGTCTTCTTGCTCACCCCTTTCAGAAAAGCATTGAGCTggccgggcgtagtaggtcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggtggatcacctgaggttgggagttcaagaccagcctggccaaaatggagaaaccccatctctactaaaaaaatacaagattagccaggtgtgttagcaggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggagactgaggcaggagaatcacctgaaccctggaggcggagcttggagtgagccgagattgtgccattgtactccagcctgggcaacaagagcgagactccatctcaaaaaaagaaagaaaaagagaaGCATTGAGCTCTTAGGAACGTGACGTGCATCCCCAGCTACACTTCTGTTACCACTTCAGCATCACCTTCCTCCCCGCTTCATCAAGTCTTTTACTCCAGACAGGCTGCAGCTGGTGACATGAAAGACCGGTCAAGGCCAGCTAAGGCATCTGCTTGAGGCCTCCCGTGCCTAGGATGGGGCGCAGCCTGCAGTTGGCTGTCACAGCCTTGTGTCAGAAACACCCTTTAAAATTTAATGTTTCCTTCACGGGTACCCTTTGGCATAAAAAAAGCCCAATCTGagccggacgcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcacattgggaagccaaggtgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagttcaagaacagcctgaccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagttaggcatggtggcacacatgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggagcctgaggtaggagaactgcttgaacccagaaggcagaggttacagtgagcccagatcacgccactgcactctagcctgggcgacagagcaagactgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGCTCCATCTGCAGTTATCTGTCGTTAGAGTTTACAAAACAGAGACCTCTTCTGCAGTGTGTCTATCCACATGTAAATATATGTACACAAGATTTAATCTGTTGTTTTGCCCCAAATCTGCCACAAGAGGCTAAGGAAGAGCAAAATAAACGTCGCGATTCGCTTCTCACAGTTCTCAGCCCTTCGCGCTGAACTATTGCTGAGATGGTGGGTTTTGCCAGCAGCCATTGTAGCCCCCGGGCCTGGCTGCATTGCTCACCTCCCTCAGCCTTGTTCTGTCCCTGTCCATGAGATGGAAGTGGCTTTCTCCAGTCAGCTGTGTGTGCAGAGACCGGGGGCTCCGGGCAGAGCCGAGTCCATCAGGACTGGAGGAAGTGCTCACAGCAGGCAGGCTCCCTGGGCCCTGGGTGGGAGGCCTCAGGGATCCCCGTACCTCCTTGCTCACCAGCCAGGCTCGACCTACTGCCCTGTGGGGCAGGTCAGGCTTTTTCCACAGCTCCCTCTCTGGGAGGAGGGTCCTTCCAAGTGAGGGTGTGGTGTAGCTGGAGAATCCCTCTTTCTAGGGGATTTAAATAAGCAGCCCCagccggacgcggtggttcacgcctgtactcccagcactttggggggccgaggcgcacagatcacgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatagtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaaaaacaatacaaaaagttagctgggcatggtggcaggtgcctgtaatcccagctacctgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcttgaacccggaaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagattgcaccactgcactccagcccaggtgacagtgcaagactctgtcgcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTTAAATAAGTAAATAAATAAGCAGCCGCATGACCCATGCTGAGGACCCTCTGCCTCACGTTGGTGGCCACGTGTGGTGGCTGCACGCTGGGTGCCTGGGGATGGCTGTGTCCCCGAGTCAGCCCCAGAAGTGCCTACGCCTCTAGGACAGCTCAGAAGTGCTGACAGGTCGTGGCCTCTCAGGATGGGCTCTGGGTTGCAGCTTCATGCCTGGAGTGGCTCATGTTTGGGGGCAAGGTCATGGGCGTTTAAGAGCAGCGACTGGCCAAGAACATGATCTGTATCAGCAGCAGCTTTTGAGAATCTGATGAAATCCCCAGAGCCCCAGAAGGGCACCGGTGTGTTCCAGCTGGTGCACGTTCACAGGGCTTGTCTCCTCAGAGCGTTTATGGGGAAAAAGATGGAAATGTTCAAGCCCAGTCCGTACTGAGAAGCAAATCGAACTTCATACACTTGGTAGACATTTTCAGTGGAAAAATATTAACATtttatggaattcttactctgctacgtccctagccaagctgtttgtatgcatgaccttggttaaacctcagttgcctctagacccccatttcataggcaaggaagctgggAGAGGGTCCCCCCATTTCATAGGCAAGGAAACTCGGAGAGGGTCCCCCCATTTCATAGGCAAGGAAGCTCGGagagggtctcccatttcataggcaaggaagctgggagagggtccccccatttcataggcaaggaagctcggagaggatccccccatttcataggcaaggaagctgggagagggtccccccatttcataggcaaggaagctcggagagggtcccccatttcacaggcaaggaagctgggagagggtcccccatttcataggcaaggaagctgggagagggtccccccatttcacaggcaaggaagctgggagagggtccccccatttcacagacaagttcagagaggctccccccatttcataggcagggaagctgggagagggtccccccatttcacagacaagTTCGGAGAAGGTCCCCCATTTCATAGGCAAGGAAGCTGGGAGAGGGTCCCCCCATTTCACAGGCAAGGAAGTTCAGAGAGGGTCCCCCCATTTCACAGACAAGGAAGTTCGGAGAGGATCCCCCATTTCATAGGCAAGGAAGCTGGGAGATGGTCCCCCCATTTTATAGGCAAGGAGTCTGGGAGAGTGTCCCCCCATTTCATAGGCAAGGAGGCTGGGAGAGGGTCCCCCCATTTCATAGGCAAGGAGGCTGGGAGAGGGTccccccatttcataggcaaggaagctcggagagggccagtgctttttaacggtcacgcagttctgagcatcaggctgtcagcctggagcctggcttggtactgaggttcccagGATGTATAAAGAACTGAACACGCACCTTTGCTGTTGGCTCTTCTGTGCGAGTGCTCTGAGAGTTTTCTGTACTCCCGGCAAGTTTGGGTTGGTACAGATTCACCACAGCGAATCTGACCACGTGGTGACCACAAGCACGCGCTTACTGCGCGCCTAAGTTCACACTCCCTGGAGAAGCTCCTGCCCCAAGGCCGCAGCCTATGGGCCTTTGCGTCTACTCAGGACCATGAGGCTGTGTCCCCGAGCCTGGCCCGGGTAGTAACTGGCATGGCCTGCGGTGCTGGGGGCGTGTCCACAGGAGCTGGTGCCACAGAGGACACGTGTGTCTGCTGTCTTCCTGGACTCGGTCGGACCAGTTTCCCAGTGTGTCCGTGAGGGTGACACTGAGTGAGACTTCTGGGATCCACACCTTTCCTGGGACCCTCACTCTTCCTGCCACAGAAAGCACCTGTGAAAGTCTGAGATCAAGAATGTGCACAGGGGAGGTGTCTGCAGGTCAAGGTCCTGAGCTGATGTCTCACAGGCCTCTGGTAGAGACGAGATTGTTCGTGTCTCTGCGAAGAAGGGCATGTTTTATTGCAGCCAAGTACAAAGTCCTCTCTGCCACTCGCTGGCTGGGACTGAGGTCATGTTCTGTCAGGTTCCAAAGAGCGCCAGGAAGACTCTGAGACCACAGAGCACGGCCTGCTTTCTCCCAGCCCCTGGTAAAGATGTCCAGCCTGGGACCTCCCCCTGTATATAGTGCTTTAAGTGGGAGAAGACCACCACCCAGATCAGGGGAGGACCTGTCCCCTGCAATGCTGCTGCCTGCTTTTCAGATTGACTTGGGAGTGCTTGTGCTGACGGAGCATGTCCTGTGGTTTTTCCCTTTCTTCCCTCTGTTGTTGTGCCTTTTCTGTAGGTACCTGCACCAGTCAGGGGCCCTGACCATGGAGGCCCTGGAGGACCCTTCCCCCGAGCTCATGGAGGGCCCAGAGGAGGACATTGCTGACAAGGTAGGCCCTGGAGGGCTGGGTAGGTGGCAAGTAGGGGATTTAGAACACAGCCACGCCTAAGGGCCGCTGCAGACACCCCGGGAGGTGGGGACAGCACAGCCGGAGGTGACCCCATGTCCTCCAGGGCTCCCCAGACTGTCCATCCAGCCCCGATGCTCTTTGGCAGGTTTCCCCAAGGGGTCTCGTGGCCATGTGAGAAAAAGGAGTCTTCCTGTTGTGCACGAAGGGCCAGCTGGGAGGAGTGGACTGGGCAGTGAGTGAGCACCCTCGGGTATCCCACCCCCACTGTGTCTGAGTCGGGCTGGGGGACACCCAGACATTCAGTCCACCAGGCCCATGGAGACGCGACCTGGGGCACCCATGATTTGGGAGAAAAGGGCTGGCCCTGCAGTTACTGCAGAGCCAACAGCCTGAGGAACGGGCTTCTCCTGGGGCCTTGAATGGAATGGGTGACAGCAGCCAGGGCAAGGCAGCCTTGCCGTGGTCAAGACCCGCTTTTCagccagatgtggtggctcacgcctggaatcccagcacattaggaggcctaggcgggcagatcacttgaggtcaggagtttgagatcagcctggccaacatagtgaaaacccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaagttagccacgcatggtggcgggcaactgtaatcccagctatttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacctgggaggtggaggttgcagtgagccgagattgcacgactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagggagactccgtctcaCCTTCTGCACCCCCTCACCTTCTGTGACCCCTTCACTTACTCCTGTACCCCCTCAATTCCTCCTGTACCCCTCAtctcctcctgtaccccctcaccacctcctgtaccccctcaccacctcctgtaccccctcactacctcctgtaccccctcactacctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtaccccctcacctccttgtgtaccccctcacctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtacccccccacctcctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcttgcactcccatctcctcctgtaccccctcacctccttgtgcaccccctcacctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtacccccctcacctcctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctGCACTCCCATCTCCTCCTGTACCCCCTTACCTCCTTGTGCAcccctcacctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtacccccctcacctcttcctgcactcccatctcctcctgtaccccctcacctccttgtgcacccctcacctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtacccccctcacctcttcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgcactcccatctcctcctgtaccccctcacctccttgtgcacccctcacctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtacccccctcacctcttcctgtacccttcacttcctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgcaccccccttacctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgtaccgcctcacctcctcctataccccctcacctcctcctataccccctcacctcttcctgcaccctcctcacctcctcctgcacccccatctcctcctgtacccccctcacctcctgtaccccctcatctcctgtacccccttacctcctcctgcacccctcacctcctgtaccccctcacctcctcctgctcccccacctcctcctatacccccatctcctcctgtactctctcacctcctcctgtacctcctcACCTCCTCCTGTACTTCACCTCCTCTTGCATCCCCACCACCTCCTCCCTACAACTTCTCTAGCATCTCAAGTCTGCTGACCCAGGCCAAGTCCTCCTCTGCTCCCTTCACTCCTTCTCCTACCTCCGCAGGTGTCTGATTCTCATCTTGGTGTGAACTCTCTGAGGGAGGGACCGAGACATGGATCTGTCTGTCCCTTGCATCCATGGGCACCTGGGCTGCCTCTGTGAGCTGCATCTGGCTGAGCAGAGACCCAACTGTGTGTTGGGGGGCTGAGTCTTGCTGCCCACCAGCCAGCCAGTCCAAAGGCACCCCTGGGCCCCGAGCCCTCAGAGCTGCGGCACTGTGTGCATTTGTGGGTCGAATGACAGTGCTCCCCAAGACCCCGGCCCCATTAGGAGCTGCACCTTTGTGGGTTTATGGGACAAGTTGGATCCAACACCAGCCTAGCTAGGTGGATCTGATTCTGTGCTGAGAAAATCCCCAGGCGGCCTCCCAGGTTGTTCCCTTGGGGGTGCAGGCCCTTCTGCTTCTGGCTGCCTGACCCTGAAGCCTGGTCTCATTGCCAAGGTTGTCTTCCTGGAAAGGCGTGTGCTGGAGCTGGAAAAGGACACGGCAGCCACCGGTGAGCAACACAGCCGCCTGAGGCAGGAGAACCTGCAGCTGGTGCACAGGTGAGCCTGGGCCAGGAGACCCGGGCCTCTGCGTGGCGCCTCCTGTGCCCGCCTGTCAGCCCCCATTTACTTCTCTTTACCTCACACAGCAGGGGCTTGGCCACCCGTCCATCCCCGTTGGAAGCCGGCTGAGGGGGTGGTGCCAGGTGGTCATCTGAGCCTACCCAGTGGGCTGCAGGCAGGCGACCCGAGGCTCTGACTGGTGCTCTCATGGAACCCTAGACACACAGAGGGCCAGAGGAGGGCACTGCCTCCCTCTCGGGAGCGCTGAGACCTGACCCACACAGAGGAGGAACTGACTGCGAACCCACGCAGTGCTCAGCCTCACCAGCAGGCCTGGAGGTGCAGCTCTCCCACCACTCTGGTCCATACGGGGTTTGCCCGTCCTGGAAGAATGCAGGTTAGAGAAGTCGCTCAGCAGCAGAAAGCGAAATGAGCAGTGACTGCTGAGTACGCGACAGGACGCGCAGTCTCATCGCTGTGGGCAGGAGTGCTGGGGAGGAAGCGAAGTGTGACGCCGTGTTTGCAGAGAAAGAGTGGGAGCTGCTTGCCTCACTCTGGTTTGCAGACTTTTCTTAGAATACCGTGTAATTCTCGGTGTTTTTCACACGAGGCACGCCATGTTGTCTCATAGCCGATTTGCAGGACTGTTTCCGGTGCAAAGTAAGATGAGCTTGTCCCAGGAGTCAGCTACCCAGGCTATGACACCTGTAGCTGGGCACCGGCAGCCTCTTGTGGGCAGAGGAGGCAGCCAGGAGGCCTATGAGGCACCTGTGGGATCTGCAGAAGAGGTTCTTCCTGTGAGCTTCTGTCCCTGCCCAGCTGCGCGGGCACATCCCGGCTCTTCCACATATTCTCAGCTCGGCCAAGGGCCCTGTCCCTTGAAGCTTCAGTGTCTTCATCACCACTGAGCAGGTAGATTCAGGGCTCTGAGCAGCCTGCACACACGTGTGTTGGCAGCAGGGCATTTGTGGTCAGCATCCCCAAAGCCCCCAAGCCCTCACCCTCACGGTACTAACATTTGTGACCATCTGCCCTGTGAGCGCTGAGAATTGGAATGCCTCATGGGATTGTGGGCATAACTTGCACATCATTTTAATTCTAACAAAGCAAAGCATGTGCTCTTGTGGAGTGAAGACCCTGGGCTTGGCGGCTGCCCGTTCTCCAGGATTCTCAGCAGAAGAGGGCCTGCTACCAGCCCCTGCTGCAGAGTGGAGAGGGGCCAGGCATGCTGGTGAAGGGGCTGGACTCCCGTAGTGCGCTACACATAAGCAGTGCCACCAAAGACCACTGTCTCCTCCTTGTCAAGGAGAATCCGGGGGGCTGCCAGATGCACttgttttgttttgttttttgagagacagggcctcgctctgttgctcaggctgagtgctgactacagcctccacctcccaggctcaagcgacccgcctccctcagccttcgatgtagctgggactacaggtgtgcaccaccacacccagcttttttttttttttttttgagacggggtctctctctgtctccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcaatcttggctcaccgcaacctccgcatcccaggttcaagcgattcttctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggacttgcaggcatgcaccaccacgctgggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatattgaccaggctggtcttgaactcctgaccttgtgatctgcctgcctcagcctcccaaaatgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgtgcccggcctagtttttaatttttttatagagatgaggtcttgccatgttgcccatgctggtctcaaacgcctggcctcaagcgatcctcccaccttggccccccaaagtgctgaaatcagaggcgtgagccaccatgtccagccTAGATGCCTTTGTCGAGTTGACTGTGGAGGTTTCATTTGAGTCTGGAGTATGTTCATCTGTTTTCCGTGTGTGTGGTGTGAAGTCCACACTGCCGCCTGGCACCACCCACTGACCGTCTGCAGTGCAGCCCCGGCCACATTCAGTTCCTGTGGCTGTTCCCTGTGGTGCTCACCTCCAACGTCCTAAACAACACGTTTCCCGTTTTCAGTATCATCTGCCCGTTCTGAGCCATTTGCTCTCTAGCCCTACCATACAGCTGCCATCCTAAGAGTACGTTTCCCGTTTTCAGTATCATCTGCCCGTTCTGAGCCATTTGCTCTCTAGCCCTACCATACAGCTGCCATCCTAAGAGTACGTTTCCCGTTTTCAGTATCATCTGCCCGTtctgagccatttgctctctagctgtgccgtacagctgccatcctaggaattccgagtgctttctcctgtgtttgattccttattttctgggtcccacgttttcttctgttttgccaactcattttctgagtatgtcactgatagttgcctggaaaagggagcacaggagccagatgctctgagaactgcttgtgtggaagtgctttttcctcccaccctgctccagtccatagtgtagctgggcataaaattctaggtcagagatcgaattccctgagaatgtgaagacctctgacccggtgctgtgactgaggaacctctggtgccgcagggccttgatgttctctgtaacttctgtttcccaccctacatacttggaggaggatcttgtattatttgccgtgctgtgcacctggttttcagcctttatttcgttttgttttgttttgttttgttttttgagacagagccttgctgtgtcacccaggctggagtgcaatggcacaatctccgctcacggcaacctccgcctcccgggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcatgcgccactgtgcccggctgatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggccaggccggtgttgaactcctgacctcaagtgatccatctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcgcctggcctaggttttcagcctttaaatctggaaaacgcgtcctttcgctgtgggaagacttctgaagttatttcaccatgcggcctctccctctcatctgtctgaacatctgctagtcacacagtgggccttctggatgtttcctctccttttttaaactttcctcgtctctaattttatctttctgttctttttttctatgtaatattctcagttttctccttcaactcttgatcagatcttttttttttttttgagacagagtctcactctgttgcccaggctgtagtgcagtggtgtgatctctgctcagtgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaaatgattctcgtgcttcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcacctgccaccacatccggctaatttttgtatttttagtagattcagggtttcaccatattggtcaggctggtctcgaactcctgatctcaggtgatctgcccgcctctgcctcccagagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagcccggcatctcaatcggacttttaaattgtccttcccacgctttcagttcctgggagctgttccttgttgtttgtctcttctgcagcaggctgccctgacgctgcagctttggctctctgctcgcggaggccgctggctcggggacctttccctgctgtctgctgcatcatgtgtctccctgggtcctcacttggtgtttgctttggccacttcctgttgaaagctttcctgttgtgtctggtgatctttggccatctgttcactcctgcgtgtgaggcaccacaaggatgagaggctctgtgcgaggcagggccagagggcgtgggctgtgctgtGTCAGTGGGCAGGGCCTGTGCCCTTCTCTTTGGGATGGTTCAGTCCTGTCTCCTGCGGATGGTTGTGAAGATCTCAGGAAGGCCAGGGTCTCCCTGCCCTGTGGGAATATTCCCTTTCCCCTGTGGTCTAGCTGACACCTGCCCTGCCTCTGCTCTGAGGTGACCTGGATGGGACTGGTCTCTATACCCACTTCCCCAGCCTGGAGGGGACTGGGAGCAGAGTGGGCCCCCCCCCCACTTGTGGCCCCTCACAGCCTCTGGGGCCCGGATGTGCCCAGCTGCCAGAGCCAGACTCGTCCTGGCTCCCATGTGGACCTGGCATCTCAGGAAGCCTCGTGAGCACCTTTGGGTGATGTGCCATGAACTGACTGTACTGCAGCTGAAGGCAGACTCCGCCAGCACACTCAGTTCTCTGGTGTTCAGCTGCCGCGGACCACGTGCTCATCAGACACTCACTTCCTGGAAATGCTGTGGCCCTTGGGCCCTGGCACCTCCACGCCCCGTCCCGAGGCCCCGTGCCTCTGGGCTCTGAGCGCACGCGTTGTGTGTAGTGGCCCTGGCACCTCCACGCCCCGTCCCGAGTCCCCGTGCCTCTGGGCTCTGAGCGCACTCGTTGTGTGTAGTGGCCCTGGCACCTCCACGCCCCGTCCCGAGTCCCCGTGCCTCTGGGCTCTGAGCGCACGCGTTGTGTGTAGTGGCCCTGGCACCTCCACGCCCCGTCCCGAGGCTCCGTGCCTCTGGGCTCTGAGCGCACGCGTTGTGTGTAGTGGCTGCAGGTGGAGCAGCTGCATGAACACAGAGTGCACCAGGAGAAGTTACCTGGCGGGCTCAGGCCCTCTGAGTGCTGCGGTCCACAGGCCACAAGCGGGCAGTGCCTGTGGGTATCAGCTGGGCCTAGGTGCAGTGGACACTGCTCCGGCCACCCCAGGTGCCTTTAGTGTGGGAGGCGAGGCCATCTGGGGGTGTATTCGCTGCTTCAGAACTGCCTTGACCAGAGCTCGGGGATGCCCTTCTCGGTGCCCTACTCCCGAGTGGAGGCAGGTTCTCTGGAGGTCCTGAGGCAGCTTCTGGGCATGGGTGGAGCCACTGCACACCCTGCCTGGAGACAGCTCAGCTCCTCCCTTTGCCTTTCAAGAGCAAACGCCCTGGAGGAGCAGCTGAAGGAGCAGGAGCTGAGAGCCTGCGAGATGGTCCTGGAAGAGACCCGGCGTCAGAAGGAGCTCCTGTGCAAGATGGAGAGGGAGAAGAGCATTGAGATCGAGAACCTGCAGACCAGGTAGGCGGTTCCCAACAGCCCATCCACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGACGGTCCCCAACAGCCCGCCAGCCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGCGAGGTTCCCGACAGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGAAAGTCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGAAAGTCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCCGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGACGGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGACGGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGACGGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAGGTTCCCGACGGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGCAGGAGAGGTTCCCGACAGCCTGCCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAGGTTCTTGACAGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGCAGGAGAGGTTCCTGACGGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAGGTTCCCGACAGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGACAGTCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCCGGCTAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGACGGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGACGGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGACGGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAGGTTCCCGACGGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGCAGGAGAGGTTCCCGACAGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAGGTTCTTGACAGACCGCCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGCAGGAGAGGTTCCTGACGGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAGGTTCCTGACGGCCCGCCAACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGTAGTTCCCTGATGGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAAGTTCCCCGACGGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAACCTGCAGGCCAGGTAGGAGAGGTTCCTGACAGCCCACCCACCCCAGAAACTGCAGGCCAGGCAGGAGAGGTTCCGACAGCCCGCCCACCCCAGAACCGGCAGTGGCTAGGAATAACCTGAAAGTTTAGAAAAAGGGGCAAAGCTATGTGGAGAAGACTTTGAAACTCTCCCAAAGACCACAAGGGATCGGTTCAAAGACTGACCCTGACGCTGTGCGGGTGCTGGTTTCTGTAAATCCATGTCTAACCAACGTATCCAGTCTTTTTAAAATACCAATCTTTTTTTTTTGGGTGGGGGTGGGTGGGtttgagatggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaagctctgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcccgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgcctgccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtaattttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtcttgatctcctgacctcgtgatccacctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctggggttacaggcatgagccatcgcgcccggccttttttttttttttttttttttgagaccaagtgtcaccctgtcgcccaggctagagtgcagtggggcgatcttggctcaccacaacctctgtctcctgcgttcaagcaattctgttgcctcagcctccctggtagctggggctagaggctcacaccactgcacccagctattttttgtatttttagcagagacgggtttcaccatgttggccaggatagtcttgaactcctgacctcaggtaatccacccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattagaggtgtgagccactgcacccagccAAAAAATCATtattttaaatagagacaggggttcttgctgtgtggcccaggctggtcttgaactcctgggctcaagcattcctcccacctcggcctcccaaagcgctgggattaccagcgtgagccactgtgcccgCCGAGGCACAAGCATTAAAGCAGCATGGTGCCTCCCTTGGTTCTCCATCTGGGAGCTCATGCTGTGGATTCCTGGTGTGTGTTTAGAAATACATTTGCAAGGGACGGTTATTGATTTTCTGTAAAAGTTAAAAGCATCAGGTAACTTAAAATATCTATAATCAGAGGACTCTAGAGTTCTCTATCCTTCTTGTGTGTCTGGGTAGTGAGGGTGGAGGAAGTTGTTTTATACAGttgtttgtttgtttgtttgtctgttttgagatggggtcttgctctgtgcccctggctggagtgcagtggccctgtcatggctcactgcagccttgaactcccgggctcaagcaatcctcctgcctcagcccctgagttgctggggctccaagtgtgctctatcatacctggctaacttttcttttttggtagagacgaggtcttgctgtgttgcccaggctggtcttgagctcttagctttaagtgattctcccaccttggcctctttttgttgttgttgttgggattttttgttgttgttgtttttCCTCTCCATACTCTCAGCAGAAGcacctcagcctcttaaagtgctgggattatgggcatgagccacctcacgtggctTTTTTAAACTGAGCATGTACTACTTTTAGATTTTGAAATACAGTAGTTTTAAATATTCATAAGAGGATTTCAGGTTCTTTTGCTTGTGTTCCTTCCAGCTCTTAAAGCTAAGATACTTGCCTTATCTAAGAAGAGCTCCTAGGCATTTTCAAAACTGGTGGCAGGAAGGGGCCTGCACTGAGAGAGCTGTGCGGGACGCCCCACACAGGGAGGCCTCCGTGCCTGCCATTGCAGTGGGGCGCCGTCTTCTGGGGAGCAAGGTCAGGGCAGCCAGGACAGTGTTTTCCCCGGGCCTTGGCACAGTGCAGTTGAGTGGGCTCAAAATTAAAGTACGTTTCTCGTCTGTGAGCGCCAGGGAGCACCTCCCATGGGACCTTTCCGCTGGGGCTGAGGTTGGGGCACAGCCGTGTGGACATCCTGCCGCCTCTGTGTGCTCTGGTGTGGAGGGGCACAAGATAGGGGTCTCACGAGGCCCTCAGGGAGCAAGCAGGGCCCAGTGTCACTGCCTCTTGTGAGCAAGCCGCCTGCCCACCCTAAGCGCTTGGGGTCAGTGCCACCGTGTTCTGGGCCTCCTGCAGCTTCCTGGAGTGGCCACCAGGAACCTTGTGGTTCTCAGGGCTGCTCAGGCCGTCAGAGGCCCCTGCAGCCCCAGGTCAGCAACCTGCGGTCAGCCCAGCACGAGGCCTCTGGCATCTTGGGGACTTCCCCAGCCTGGCCTCTGCCCATCTGGTGTACAGGAAGACCCTGGTCAGTGCAAAGACACTGTCTCAGTCCGGGGTCCTCAGGAGCAGAGGATCTGGAGGCAGGACTCCCAGCACCTGCGTCGGAACCTCCTGGGAACAGCAGGGGCGGGTGGCTATGCAGTTGCAGTGCCTAGAAAACAGCTGGATTTCAGGAGTGGAGCCTCAGTAGAGATGAGAGTTAAAGCTGAAAGGGCATAGAGAAGATGGAGGAGTGGAGAGGCTGGAGCTTTGGACATCCTTGTTTAGGGACCGGGAAAGGAGAATATGTGTCATCAGCAGAATGGGGCTGTACGAAGGTCACAGGCAGAGATCTGAATCTCAGGACACAGGGCCCGGGAGAGGTTCTAGGAAAGGCCAGGTACCTCTGGGAGTGGGGCCCCCAGGGGCTTCCAGAAAGTATGGGAGCCCCTGGCAGGCTGCAGAGAGCTGGAGTGAAGGCTGATGGGGCCACAGTGGCATGTCCACAGAGACCGGGGCCTGATTTGCAGCTTGTGGCACCTGCCGAACCCCCGGCGTTGGGGTACATGGCCCATCATCAGGCACAGAGTGAACTGGGTGAACGTGGCCCTGGTGTGTGGTGCTTTCTAGCAGCACGTGAGCCAAGGAAGCCCAGGGAAGCCTTCGCTTGTGCCACGTAGCATAGCTCGTCCTTCCAGAAAATGTGAGTAGACTCCCCTGAGCCTGATAATGAAAGGAGAGAAGTCAGAAAGACTGACCCCAGCACTGGGCAGAGCCGAGTGTGTCTGATGGACAGCGAGAGGCTGGGGCAAGGAGGAAAGAAAGAGGGGTCAGGCCTCGGGAAGGCAGTGCTGCTGTGTGTGAAGCTGTGCGGCTCTTTATTTTCTTCTCTTTGCTTATCTGTAGTTTTGAAATTCAATAGAATTAAAACATAATTTGCTTTCATAATTATGAACAAAACATGCAAGTGTTACTTTGAAAGGAGAAAATAGCTGTGGGTAGAGCCGTCTGGACTCCAGGGTTAGAGGCGGAGAGTGGAACTTAGTATGCTCCACTCAGCAAAACAACAGGAAAGGCAGATGGCAAAGGTGCAGCCCAGAAAGCACAGCTGCACACACTCCTAACGCAAACAACACCCTGCGCCAGCAGCTACACCGGTGTTTGCATCTCGGAGCAGCCACATGGCTGACACGGACCGGGGTTCGCATCTCGGAGCAGCCACACGGGCGACACGCACCGGTGTTTGCATCTTGGAGCAGCCACACGGGCGACACGGACCGGTGTTTGCATCTCGGAGCAGCCACACGGCTGACACGGACCGGGGTTCGCATCTCGGAGCAGCCACACGGGCGACACACACCGGTGTTTGCATCTCGGAGCAGCCACACGGGCGACACGCACCGGTGTTTGCATCTCGGAGCAGCCACACGGCCGACACGTGTTGGGGTTTGCATCTCGGAACAGCCACACGGCCGACACGGACCGGGGTTTGCATCTTGGTACATGAAGGCTCAGAAGTGGGTAGCACCAGGAACCGTGGAAGTTGGATAAAGGCGAGGCTCACACAGGAGGGTCCCCACCCACATACAGCTGGATCACACCCATCCCCACCCTAGAGGAGGAATCGGGACTGCAGGGCGCCAGCACACACCAGAGTGGCACCACCGAGCGCCCGGGTCCTCCTGACGAACACCTGAGGCCAGGGGTCTGACCAGCCCCAGACAAGTCCTGGGAGCGTGCCTGTCCCGGGCACCCCGTGGCCTCCCCGGCAGTGCAGAGGCCGGCCGGTGCTCTTTGGAAGGGGTTGCATCTGCTTTGCCCCTGGTCTCAATCATCAGTTTGCAAAGCAAGAGCAAGTCCCCTCCTGGGTAGAGGACACCTTAAGCCCTTCCCGCCCAGCCCTGTGCTGCCCCTGGGTTTCCACTTACACCAAATTCTGGGTGTTGGTGCAGGTTGGATTGAATTAGAAGGGACGGCAGGGTAACGGGATGGTGAGGACAACTGGATTATGGagaagatccagggttccttggagaaatggccagttctgaggctgggacaggctaagcctgcagcaatgtgtagtatctgaaaatgaggtgcttacactaaaaaccccccatgagcacagacactgaggttatctcagagggacatgggccagctgaaggagttgccagacgccaaagctggaacagtttaacaaactcatagtgacagccttggattacaatccaaagcataaagtgcgtgagtccatatgacacagataaattatcatcaacgaacagaaaagagggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaaccccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggtggatcatctgaggtcaggagttccagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccctgtctctactgaaaatacaaaaattagccaggcgcggtggcggccgcccgtaatcccagctattcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacctgggaggcagaggttgcactccagcttgggcgacaagagcaaaactccatctcaaaaataaaataaaataaataaatagagaagacacaaatcttcctcacagaggaattccacataatgtccgcagacactccctccaggaggcgggggctggacccagtgagcggcttccagaggacagagcgggcgggaaagcagggacctgtcagagtgcacacctggcaggcagaccttggccaggtgatcagaaagccgtgcggacgtcaggaccctgatacggtgtgacgggaagggccccgcacctctgtgggcatcttcccaaaacccatcacccagtctaattgcgagaaaacaccagacggacccaacgtgggggacgctctacagacaccatgacaggcctgctcgacaccgtcaaggtcggaaaacacaggaaagtctgggagactcacagaccaggggacggaggagacaaaatgcagtgtgggctgggcacggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagctctttgggaggctgaggctgttggaacctttaagctcagagttggagaccagctcaggcaacacagcaagaccttgtctctgcaaaaaatttaaaaattagccacgtgtggtggggcacacgtgtactcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggaggatctcctgagcccgggaggtcggggctgcagtgagctgagattccaccagtgcactctgggtaacagagcgagaccctctctcaaaaaaccaaacaaatgcagtgtggttgctggatggggtcccagaacagaaagggcacgcatgggaaagccacagtcttcagttagtgtggtctgcagagtgtcccaatgtggctctgtgactgtgacacataacaccacagtgaagaacagtgaccacaccaagggaggccagtgcagggcccacggggactacactgtgtctgctacttctttttttctttttgatacaggatcttggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggtggatcaccaggtcaggaaattgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatagaaaaaattagccgggtgtggtggcagtcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccggaaggcgaagcttgcagtgagccgagatggtgccactgcactccagcctgggcaacagagtgagactgtctcaaaataagtaaataaaTAgatacaggatcttgctttgtcactaggctggagcgcagtggcgggatcacagctcactgcagccttgtacttccaggatcaagtgatcctcctacctcagcccctcaagtagctggagctacaggcatgtgccactatgctcggctaatttttgtatttttttatagagatgggggtctcactatattgcccaggctggtctcaaactcctgggcccaagcaatcctcccgcattggcctcccaaagtgttgggattacaggcgtaagccactgtactcgccttcaacttttctgtaaacctaaaattattccaaaacccaaagtatattaaaaaaACCACCGTGGATggccggcggggtggctcgcgcctgtaatcacagcactttgggaggctgaggcaagcggatcatgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggcgaaaccccctctctactgaaattacaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcaggcgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaaccccgggagatggagcttgcagtgagctgagatcacaccactgcactccagcctggtgacagagtgcgactctgcctcaagaaaaaaataaaaaaataatactaaaaCCTTCAAGGATTACGGAAAAGCTGTGCCCTGGAGCACATGGGTGGGCACATAAGGATTGGCCCTGGTCGTTTGGGGGCGTCTGTTGGTCACAGGGCGGCCCCAGCAGGGTTTCCCTGAGACACAGGGCACACTGGCCCTGTAGAGGCGAGCTTCCTGGAGTGAGTTTCAGCTTTGTTCTTGTGTCCCAGGCTACAGCAACTGGACGAGGAGAACAGTGAACTCCGGTCCTGCACGCCCTGTCTGAAGGCCAACATTGAGCGTCTGGAGGAGGTGAGCTGCCAACAGCCTGGAGCTGTGGCCAGTGGGGCCAGCCCATGCCCTGCCTGTGGGGCAGCTGAGGTAGCCCTGAGCTCTGTGCTGAGCGGGATACTGTGCTGTGTGTGAGGGAACGGGGCCAGCTCAGGGCCCAGGCCGCTGGAAGACACTGGACCGTGCTCCACCCACAGGAGCAGGGCCCAGAGGCTCACTCCTAGATGGACCCAGGGCTCTGAATCTGGGAATTGTCCTCCAAGGGGAAGGCATCAGCCAGCCACTTATGCCCCAACCACTGCCGACGTGGAGGCAGAGGCTACACATGGGGCTCCCACACCCCAGCTTGTCACTGCGAGACCTCCCTGCCCCCACCTCACCAGGTGTGCTCTGGGAAGCTCCCAGGAAGGATATTCTCAGAGCACTTGGGCCCTGACTCCCATGAACCAGAGGAGCCCGGCTGGAGGTGCCCACAGCCACTGAGTCAGGTCCTGTCCACACAAAGGTCCTTCCTGCCCCTCGTGAGAAACGGCCCTCGTGGCCTGCGTGTGCGCCTCTACCCAGAAGCAGGTGGCCTTGACCTCCACTGAGAGGCAGGAAGGCTCAGACCCAGCCCTGTCGCGCTCCAAGCACGGGCGCCACCGCGTTGCTGTTGGGAGACTCAGAGATTGGAGGGACAGACGGCCGGGGCAAGCTGCATGCACAGGTAGGTGCGTGACCCGCATCCAGGGCAGGTGTCCACCCCTGCAGGAGAAGCAGAAGCTGTTGGATGAGATAGAGTCGCTGACGCTGCGGCTCAGTGAAGAGCAGGAGAACAAGAGGAGAATGGGGGACAGGCTGAGTCACGAGAGGCACCAGTTCCAGAGGGACAAGGAGGCCACCCAGGAGGTGAGCACCCACCCTGCCCCACGCCCAGTCCTGCGCCCAGCCTGCCCCACGGGGAGCCTTTGTTTCCTGAGACGCTAGCTCTTGGCTGTGCTGCTTTGGGCATAGCCGCTGGTGTGTGTCGTCCTCCCGAGAGACGGCCAGATCAACCCTGAGGTTCTACAGCCAAGTGATGGCTGACGGTGGCCCCTGGGAGCCCAGGCCCCCCGGCTCACTGCACGGTTGCCCTGCAGCTGATCGAGGACCTCCGAAAGCAGCTGGAGCACCTGCAGCTCCTCAAGCTGGAGGCCGAGCAGCGGCGGGGCCGCAGCAGCAGCATGGGCCTGCAGGAGTACCACAGCCGCGCCCGGGAGAGCGAGCTGGAGCAGGAGGTCCGCAGGCTGAAGCAGGTGGGCAGGCCTGGGCCTCCCTCCCTCACACTCCTGCAGAAGCTTCCACAAGACTGGTTGGGAAGGGGGGGCCGTGGAGGGTCAGCATCTGAGCTGGAGGCCTTTTTCCCCGGGCAGTCCTTGTCCCTGCTCAGCCACCAGCAGGGGCCACAGCCCAGTAGTGATGTTGCTGTGCCTTCAGGACAACCGCAACCTGAAGGAGCAGAACGAGGAGCTGAACGGGCAGATCATTACCCTCAGCATCCAGGGCGCCAAGAGCCTCTTCTCCACAGCCTTCTCTGAGTCCCTGGCTGCAGAGATCAGCTCCGTCTCCCGAGATGAGGTAACACATCCCGTGTCTGCACGGTGTGGCCTGGGGTCCACAGTCTGCACTGTCTGTGCGCTGTGGTTTATGCGCTGTGGCCTGTGGCCCATGCGCCTCAGCTCTGACCACCTGCTTGCCCTACAGCTCATGGAGGCGATTCAGAAGCAGGAGGAGATCAACTTCCGCCTGCAGGACTACATCGACAGGATCATCGTGGCCATCATGGAGACCAACCCGTCCATCCTGGAGGTCAAGTAGAGGCAGGAAGGTCCAGCCTGAGCTGGATTCGGGACTCCAACACCCTGGAGTGGTTCCGTCAGACCATGAGGAGCCAAGACCAGCAGGTCCCACAGCCGACAGTGCCCAGAGCATGCAGGGAACCCTCGTGCAGCTGAGCTGGGGCCGCCAAAGACCGGGGCTGCCAAAGGGGCAGAGGGTGGTGGAGAGGAGAGGGAGAAAGGGAAGTCCCAGGGCCCGGGGTCCACAGAGGATGAGGGTTGTGGCAGGGCCGTCCATCAGCGCTGACCTTCCGGGGGCCCAGAGCTTCCCAGCCCTGAGTCAAGCTGGCCATGAACGCGTACACTTCAGTTCAGCAGGATGGGCTGGAGAGCCTCTCTGTGCAGCGGTGTGGGGTGAGCCCTGCTGTGGCCTCCTTGTGGTGGTCCCTCTTCCCACGTGCAGCCCTGTTGGGAAGAAAGGAAGAAAACAGGTCCCTCCAGGGGTGCTGCTGCCTAAGCCACCCACATAAGTACGCTGGTGCCGTGTCACCCATGTTGAGCCGCTCCTGATGGCTGACGGGCTCCCAGACCCTCACCTCGGACATGGTGGTGGGGGAAGGACGGGTGGGCAAGGCTGGTGCGTTCCCCAGCTCTCCCTACGCTGCTCGGGCCATTGCCCAGCCAGATGTGGTCACCTCAGTCCAGCTCTGGGGCCTCCAGGCCATGTGGCTGTTCCCACGGCCCAGTCCTCGCTGCAGTAACCCCTGGGGGCTCTGACCACCTATGGGGGCCGGGCAGGAGCCTCTGGGGCCTCCACTCCGACATCAGGACCTGAGATGACCGCTGTGTGGCGCTCTCTCCCTGGGCAGGGTGGATGCCACAGGCCCCTCTGGCTCCCAGGTGCTGCTTCTCCACAGGTGCGGCCTGGCCCGGCCTCCTAAAGGCCACACCCTCCCCACGCACTTCCCAGGCCAGAATCCAAACATCGGGAACCCTGTTTTCTTCTGGGTGTGTCTCACTTAGAAATCGTGGTTCTTCCCCGAGGGTGCATGTTGCAGGAGGGAGAGGGCAGGGAAGACTCACAGCAGAGCAGGAGGGGGCCTGTGCTTCTCGGGGTCTGCACCCCAGGCACAGCGGTGTCACCCCGCAGGACCGCGGGCCTGCCCCAACCCCCAGCATTCCCGGGTGGGCCCAGACCCCATCACCAAGACTGGCCACCCGCTGCGTGTGTGTGCGCGCGCGTGTACGTGTGGCCCCACATCCGCCGCCTTCCACGCTAGGATGTAAGAGGTCGCCTCCTATTGTACATTTGGGGAAAGCCTTGGGTGTAAATCAGTGTAAACTTGGAGGAGAGATTTTTCTATCATGTAGAGTAGGTATTTTTTATAGATTGAAGGTTGATCAATTTTTTAATACTTTCAAGAGAAAACTGTGTATACACATGAAatatatatatatatatatatatatatatgtataatatataAAGACTGGCACCCTGCCTCTCTGTGCCCAGGCCCAGCCCTGGTGACATGGCACCACTCAGCAGTGCTGTCACTGTAAGCATGGACTCCCAGGAGACAGTGTGGGAAACGCTCCTGCTTTAATTCCCCGAGAAACGGCTCTTCCTGCCTGGATGCAGGAGGGCAGGGGCCACCACAGATTAAAGCTGTTACTGCACACGCAGAGGCCGGCTTCTTCCTCCAGGGGGGCCACAGGGTGGGGTGGGAGTCTTCTGGGCCTGGCCCAGCTTCCCTCAAGGCGTCCGAGGCCATCAGTTGTCTGAGCTCAGAACCCAGCAGACCTGCCTGGCTCTGCAGCTTGGTCAGACTAAGACCCTTCCAAGGCCGTAGGATTGCACCTCCAGGCCCAGTGGAGCCTGGCAGCTTTCCAGCCAGGTTCTGGATCCTGACGAGCTGCTGAGACAGCATCAAGGTGGGGCAGGTGGGGCGGGGCAAATTGGGCAGCACAGGGCTGTGTGGGCATCAGGGCTCTGGGTCACACGCCTCTGGGGACGTACGTCCCATGTCGGGAGAGCCGTCAAAACGTCCCCGGGATTAAGAGAAGAGTGGGGggcagggcgcagaggctcacgccataatctcagcactttgggaggccaaggcaggaggatcgcttgaacccgggagttcaagaccagcctgggcaacatagcaaggccccatctctaaaaaataaaaaattaaccaggcattgtggtgcgcacctatagtcccagttccttgggaggctgaggtgggagaattgcttgagtccaggagacggaggttacagtgagctgtgatcacaccgctgcactccagcctgggcgacagcgagaccccatttcagaaagaaTTTAAAAGGGCAGTGATGTGCAGGGTGGTGGGAGGACATCCCCCAGAAGAGGGGGCAGACACAGTACCAGCACCACAGGCACGGGAAGGTGAGGAGGCAGGTCCCGACGGAAGTGGGCTCCCGAGGTCATGGGCAGCCAGGGAGTCTGAGAGAGCTCAGTGCCACTGCAGCCACAAAGAATGGCCTGCGGGGAGTGGTCCCATCTGATCAAGAGTCCCCCAAAAACACAAGCCTTGAAAACTGGACCACCTGGTCCAGCATCCAGGAAGCGGACTGTGCATCTGCGGCTCTCGCTCTCCCGCCCCCCGCGCGAGATGCCCGCCTGCCTGTCACTCTCAGATGCAGATGGAGATGGAGAAACCAAGGCCCAGGGAAGCTGAGGACCCAGGTCTGCCAGTCCCCTCAGCCCAGCTGCTGCTTGCGGGCTGGTGACCAGAAGAGGACCAGGCGTGGCCTACAGTGAGGAGTCCTTGAACCCTCAGTGCAGGTGCAGCAGAATGGTTCCAGGTCACAGGGCCCAAGAACCCTGATTGCTTCATGAGTTAGAACTGAGGAGTGACAggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggcccaggcaggcggatcacaaggtcaggaaatcgagaccatcctggctaacatggtgaaaccacgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggccggcacctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcatgagaatggcgtgaacctgggaggtggagcttgcagtgagcagcgatcacgccaccgcactccagcctgggcaacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaagaaCTGAGGAGTGACATGGGCGGTGTGGGTGTGTCCAAGGCCAAGTTCCTCCTCCCAGGAAAAAGACCTGCTCTCCCACCTACCCAGGGGTCTGTGTGGTGCCAGTAAGACCCATCTCTGCCTAGAGGGAGAAGCTGGAGGTGGGGAGGGGAACTCACTCCACGCTGCCAGGCCAGAGCCAGGGAGGGGAAGGGGAGCAGCTTCCTCCTCCTGATACCCCACTGTGGTCTAGGAGCACCTCAGTTTCCACGCTAGATTTTAAACATGGGGCTGTCCACAGTCCAGCTGGCCCCACCTCGATGACCCACTGGGGTCTCCAGCCCAAAGGAGTTTGAGACAGGAGGACACAGGATGAAATGGAAACATTCCCGGAAGGGCTGCCAGAGACCTTGTGGGTGAGCGAGAGCAGGGTGGGGTGGCCGGTGTGCATGCCTGGTGGACGTGCCCAGAAGCCTGCACCCCCCAGGAGGCCCGAACGTGTCCCTCTGGAGTGTCGCCCCCACCCCCAGCTGTGCAGTGGGATGGTCACTGGGCCTGCCAAGTCTCCCAAGGCAGATCCTGTCCCCAGCTGGCTCCTGACATTGAATGTTCTGAGTCTTGGTCAGTTCTGCCCGATGGAAGAGCACCAAGGAGTCTTGCCCGGCAGGATAGAGAGGAGCGGCTCTGCCCCTGCCCTGGAACAAGAGCCCCGGACGTGGGTGCAGAGCCCCTCACATGAGGACCGCCCCATCCTGCCTCTGCTGAAGGGCAGGTATAGGAAGGCTGGACCCCCTCAGCGGCCCCCCGGATGTGGGTGCAGAGCCCCTCACATGAGGACCGCCCCAGCCTGCCTCTGCTGAAGGGCAGGTATAGGAAGTCTGGACCCCCTCAGCGGCCCCCCGGATGGCACCCTGGCCCCTCTACCTGCTGGCAGTCCAGTAACCTGGAGGTGGTGGCCCAGAGAAAGGCGGGAACTTCTCCCAGGGCCCCGTCCATTGTTATTTTCACCTGTCCGGCCGCCCAttctttttttgagacggactcagtcacccaggctggagcgccatgtgccatcccagctcactgcagcctcaacctcccgggctcaagtgatgctcctgcctctgcctcccaagtagcagggaccacaagcacacaccaccacaccctaattatcttttaagtggagacaggtttcgctttgtgtgttgcccaggctggtGGTCCGTCGTCTTTTTGACCCAGGCCTGTGTGGCTCACAAAGCAGGCAATTGCAGGGTCATCCCATCAAATCTGAGCATGGCACCAGAGCACACAAGTCAGCCACCTGCGGGCCTTGGCACCCTCGTGCTCCACGCCAGGGTCCCTGTGTGCTCAAGTCTGGGCTCCATGATGGCACTGGGGTTTGTTCTGTTTGCTGCTTTGTGCGCGTGAGGCTTTCTCTGGGTGCCTGAACAGATGCCTCCAGTTTCAGTTCTTTCTGTTTGGCCCTCCCCATCCTCTTCTCCTCCAGGGGGGATTCATGGCTCGCCTCTTGGCTCTTCTGGGCACTTGGCGAGCTTCTGCGCACTTGCGTTAGCTGCTCAGGTCTGTCTGGATGTGAGAGTCGTGTCCTCAGGCCAGGAAGCACTGGCACGGAGCAGGGCTCGGTCAATGGTCTGGATAATCCAGAGTCACTTACCTTCTGCTGTGCAGTCATTTACAATTCACGCCTGTGTGCCTGATGTCTTGTGACTCAGAATCTTCAAGACAATCACAGGCTGGCCTCACGGAGGCACGAGTGACTCATTTCTCTCATCGCACCCATTCCCTCCAGCACTCTCCTTGTGCGGGGAAACCTCAGTCACCTTGAAGACGCCTCCTGAGGCCCTCTTCTGGGTGAATGGGCTTCCTCCTTCACCATGACAGGCTACTGGGGAGAGCTGGGGTGCTCCCACCCTCTCCTCACCCCAAATGGGCCTGGCCTAGCAAAACTGGCCAGAACTGGCCACTCTGCAGTGAGCTGGCAGGGCCCTCAGCATCAGATCAACAGGTTCAACTGCAGCTGCCTCTCTGGTGGGGAGGTTATAAGGCCTGCTGGCTAGACCACTGGCCCCTGGCCAGGGAGCCACCTAGGCAGTGCCAGGGAAGGACTGGGAAGGGAAGAGAACCTGCGGTCCCTGAGTGAGGCCTTGACTGCACCCTCTCCTGTGGTTCGAAAGCCACACTTGGCCAGTATCCTGCCATGCAGGTGAGGAAGCTGGGGAGGACAGGGTCCCAGAGCCTTGTCCAAGTTGCAGAGAGGAGAGCCAGCTCTCACTCTGCAGCCCTCTGTGCCCCCAGACCCCCACTGGCCCCCGGGGACACATTTCCTGCCCTTGGGATGCTTTGGCATGGATATAGTCTGGGAACAAACGGCACATCCAGCTGCCCTGCCTGTCTCCACAGAGGGGGCAGCAGACCTAGGGGGAGGTGTCCAAGACACAGGAATGAAGTGTCCTTACCAAAAGCTTCCGAGGACAGAAATAAACCCCTCCTGCCAGCTTCTGCACTGACTGCAGCTAGAAGCCGAGCTCCACGTGGGACACAGGTGTCCCTGCTGCGGCATCTCAGCATGACGGAGGCCCATCCTTGGCTTTCCTGGAGCATGAATATCCTCTGAGGAGCACTGGCCCTGGCCTTGTAGGTCTTGCTGAGACTGGCTTAGATTTTCTGGCCCAGGAGCAATCGTCACCCAACCTCCCACTTGTAAATCTCGCCACAGAATCGGCCCACAACCGTCTCTCCGGAATCTCGGCGGACCAGCCCTGCTCCTGTGTCTCCCTCTCCCGCAGAGCCACTGCCTTCTCAGGCTCCTCAAGTGCACCTAAGAGCGGGAGTCTGGCTGCCCTCAGCACTCGCGTCCCGCCCTGCAGCCTGATAAGCTTGACGCCAAGGCATTCTCCCGAGAGCCGGCCCAGCAGCTGCTGGCAGGAGAGTGGCCTCAGGGCAGCGGGAAGGGGACCTCCGGGGAGAGAATGAGGCCTGCGCAAGGGTCCTGGAAGGACCCAGGAGTCGCCCCGGCTTCCCTCCCCCAGGCCCTGGTTGGGCGCCGTGGGCCGCGTCCCAGTTGAGCCCGGCGTGGCCGTTTAATGGCGTCCCTCCGCGACCGAGGACGAAGGGGCCTAGAGAGGCTGTGCCCAAGCGACGCTGCGAGGCCAGGCCGCGTCTCGGGCCAGGGCGGTCCCCTTGCCACCGCCGCTCTTGGCCGCCAGGACCAAGCACAGCACGCAGCGTCGCGAAAGGGGCGGTCCTGGAAGGCGCGAAGGGGTCTCCGGGTCTCGCGAACACGGCGGGGTCGGGGCGGAGTCGTGGGTCCTCGGTCGAGCGGCCGCCCAGAGCCCCGCGGGACACGGACGGCCCCAGCCCGGCTCCCCGCGAGCCCCACGCGTCTGTGACGCCGCTGATGCGCAGACGCCGCGGCTGCAGGCCCCGCCCCTCCGTGCCCCTCGCAAGGCCCTCTGGGAGTTGTAGTTCCAGCTCCTCCTCGGGCCGCCCCACTCCCTGATAATCCTGGAGCGCGGCGCCTCCCGGGGACCGAGGCCTCGGgcccggccgtctccagcagcgagggcaggagaagtggcccgggcggtcggcggactgggagggcgccacccgaggactacaactcccggcctgcctcgcgcaggcACCGCCCCGAGCTTCCGCCCCGTCGGCGCCGCGCAGCCCTGTGGGAGCCGTAGTCCGGGCGCGCGATTCACAgcgccgcgtgcgccccgggcgcgccgtagccgcggggcccgggccgggcgcTACGCTACGAAGGCAGCGTAAggcgggcgccggacgcgggcaggggccggggccggagccgggtcggggcgccccgcggcTGAGGAGCGGGAGGCCGTCCGGGCAGCGCGGCCGGCGGCGAGAGGGGCCCCGCCGCTCTCCGGAGGCAGAAGTTGTGGATcggccggcgggggcgagcgggcccgggggccggggccgcgctgcccgggccgcgaggacgaggcggcgccgccgggctgtggaggtgagtcccgtcggccgggcccggccgggcgcccagccggggaccccgggcggggagcgcgggcccggagggcggcggggagcgcgggctcggcggggcgcaggaggcctcgggggccgggcgcgccgggcTCCGAGCCAGGGCAGGGACGGCAGGGCCCCCGGAGTGGGGTCAGCCCGCCGCCCGCTGGCGCCTCCAGGCTGGTGGGGGCCAGGGCTGGGCGATGCTTCGCAGAGGAACCCAGAGGAAGGCGGGAAGTCGGCAGGGACCTGGGCCATGTGGGTCACTTGAGGCCAGCCCCGGGGGCCGCGCACACCGGAGGCGGCCTCGGCCCTGCCTGCCCTTGAGTGCCCTTATATCCGGGCCCATCGTGCGGTCCTGGCCGCCTTAGGGATGTTGTGCTTGGTGCGGGCATCACTCCCCTCACTTGGGGAACGGCCTGGGGGCGGCCACCTGGCGTGGAGGGGCTGGCGGGAGCCCCGTCTGTGCCAGCCATGCCAGTGTTCTCTTCCGTGTTCCTCTGGGGCTGCTGCGGCACCAGCTGGGAAGTTGCAAATCTGCTGTCCTCCCGCTGGCTGCAGAAGGGGCCCCTCTAGTCCTGACCGGGGGAACTCTTGTGTGGTCAGCTGGCCCTGGCCGGGCGAGCTCTCGGGGCCCCCTTACTGCTCTGGAGTTTGTTACCGGACTGCAGGTAACAAGACCCGGAAAGCAATGGTGAGGCCCAGAACCTGAGGCCAGGCCTGGGTGTGTGGGGCCAGTGGGGAAGACTGGGACTCCGTTGGGTGCTGAAGAGTTGTGTGCTTCTCCTTCGGGAAACCCGGATCTCTTCCTCTGCCCAGGTCTGAGGGGTGCGGAAACGTGAGTCACAGTTCAGTGTGGGAGTGCCCCGTAATTGCCTCCGCGTTTCCAGAGTCTGGGGCTGGGCAAGGATATAGGGGTGATTCTCCCTTCCGGTTCTGAGTGACTTCTCAACTGTGAAGTGGGGCAAGAGAAATTGTTTTTCTGGCCTGTCTGGGGGAGGCAGGTCCTGCAGGAAACCAGCTTGGCCTGGCCTTGGGTTGGGTGTGCCTTGCCTCCTCCGAGGTCCTTCTGCTTGCGGGAGGAGCACCCCTCTTTTTCCTGCTTCTGTCTGTGTCTGAGGCTCTCCAGAGCTCCTTGATTGGCAGAGGAGCCAGTGACCTCTGAGTCCCCAGGAGAGCCCGAGGCTCAGTAACTGCATAACTGCGCAGGGCCTCTTGTCTGGGCCTCCACAGACCGTGGTCTCTGAGAGCAGGAAGTGGCTGGTCCCCTGTAATGCTGCATCTGTGTGACAGCCTCAAGCCCTGCTGGCTCTCTCTCCGGGCACCCCTCACTTGCTTCTTGCCCTGGCCTTGGGCAGCACTCCGGTAACCCCAGTGCCACAGGTGAGGAACCGAAGCTGGAGACAGCTGTTCATGGCAGGGGAGGGGCCGAGGGAGGCTGAGCGCCTGGTCTCTCCCTCCTGCTGGTTCCACCAGTTCACACGAGGCAATTGGAGGGAAGGATTCTGCTGCCCGGAAAATCCTCCGGAACCACAGGTGTTGTTCATGGGCCTGAGCCGCTCAGTGAAGAACTCGGCCGTTGGTGGCCGAGTTGCCCCTGGTCCAGCCCTCTGGCCCGCGGTGTGATGCCTCTACTCATGGCAACAGGCGTGGACAGGTGCTGAGAAGGAGGACGACATCATTAAACAAAACAGCTTGGGGTCTTTGAAAAACAGTGACAGAAACCCAGGAAGGCTGGTGACTTGTCAGGTCTGTGTCTGTCCTGGGTGGCCACTCGGCCCTGGACCGTGAGGCTGAAATGACAGGAGACACGGAGGGTGGGCTTGGGTGGTTTCCTCATAAGACACAGAAGAAGGAGGCCCCCAACCCGGGGGCTGCCTCGTGCGCTTTGCTCTCCTGTTTTCCTGCTCTGTCCCTCTGGTCCTGCCCTCTGACCCCTGGCACAGCAGGAGTGCCCAGAAGCCCAGTGGGACTTGTTCTCTGCCTAAAGCCCTTCCGCATCCCTCGTACCCACTCGGTGTGGATGTGGGTTTTCTCACCACCAGGCTGTGCCTCAGCTGTGTGGAGCCACTGGCCTCTCATGCCCCACGCTGGAGAGAACGCTGAGGTCTGTGCGGTTCTCATGTGACCCTGTAGCTGGTCCCTGGCTCCCCACTGTGGGATCTGCCTGCAGCACTTACACTTGGGACCGCCCTGTCTCCCTGCTGGATGTGGCGCCGAGGGCAGGGTCCGTTTCTGTTTCTTGGTAGGCCTAGTGTCTAGCGCTATGCAGCCGTGCGCAGAGCAGGCGGTCAGTGAGCACCTGGGGTTGGCCCTCACCACAGGCAGTTCTGAATACCTGGGTTCTGGCAGCCCAGGGGGACTCCTGCGTGCTCCAGGAAAGTAGCACAGCAGCCCCTGTGGCGTGGACACGGCCACACCTGAGCTCGGCCTGTTTCTGAGTCTGAGAGAACAGGCTTGCTGGCCTGTGATCTTTGCATGTGTGTCTCGCTGCAGGGAGGCTGTGGGTTGGGGCTGGACCTAGACCCGTTCAGCCACACCCTGTCACTATGTGGGTCACACACAGCTGGGTGGAGACCTCCCGGTGCGTGGCCCAGGGAGGTGTCTGGGCGTGGAGTCTGTGGACAGCCACATTGTACCACTAGGACAGGGGCTGCTGCTGGGCCCACAGGGTGCACGGAATGGGGTCTGTGGGAGGATGGGGGCATCCTAGCCCAGGGCAGGGACCCCGTGGGCCCCCCAAGATGAGCTGCGTCAGGCTGTTGCTTTGCACACTCTGAGGGGCCTGCCTGAGTGCTGCATGGGAAGCCAGCAGTGTGGCCGCCCTCCCCAGAACTCATCCAGGGCACCAGGGTGGACCCATGAGTCCCGTCGGGTCATGGGCATCAGCCTCGCCATCCTGGCCTCCAGATACAACGATTTGTCAGATTCCCTGAGGTCAAAGGGAAGCTTCAAGGGTTGCCATCCCCGCCTCCCTGGCGGTCCTAGACGGGATGTCAGGAGGACGCAGGGCCATCGCTGCTTTTTAAATGTCACAGTGACTGCAGCGTCTGCTCCTCTGTGGAAGGAGCTTGCTCCGCTAATGAGGGAGTTCCTCCTCATGGCCTTCCCCTCACTTCTCTTCAAAAAGTTGCCCTTTATTTTAACAttttttaagttttatttttttgagccagggtcgtgctctgttgcccacgctggagtgcagttgcaatcatagctcgctgcagcctcaaactcctgggctcaagtgatcttcctgcctcagcctcccaaatactgggactacaggtgggcgccaccacacccagcCTCTGCCCTTTGTAAGTGAAGTCCCCCAGGCAGGTTGAACCTCTTACACCTTCTGCCCCTGCCTGATCCCCACTCCCTACCCCCCACCTCCCTGTCCCCTGTAATGAGAAAGGCAATAAGTTTTGGAGCTTTCTGGAGTTCCTGCCCCTCCTGAAAAGGTGGCTGCAGAGAGGCTGGAGCTGATGGGGAAAGAGGTGCCACGAGGCCTCCTCTGGGTTAGGGCCACACGGCTCCCAAGGCCCCCGTCTCCTTCTCTGGGGTGACAGGTGCCCCCAGGGCCACACGGCTCCCAAGGCCTCCGTCTCCCTCTCTGGGGTGACAGGTGCCCCCAGGGCCACACGGCTCCCAAGGCCTCCGTCTCCTTCTCTGGGATGACAGGTGCCCAGGGCCACACGGCTCCCAAGGCCCCCGTCCCCTTCTCTGGGGTGACAGGTGCCCCCTGTGTCCCAGAGGCTTCTGCTTGGCCACCAGTGAGGTCACCGGGCTGCCCAGACCAGGGCTGCTTCTGCCACCACATGGCAAGCAGAGAAGTAGAGAAGTGCCAAAAACCACGAGTGCTTGTCTGGTCCTTTTTTCCTGTTAAAAATAGAAGTCGGggctgggtgcggtggctgacacctgtaatcccagccctttcagaggccgaggcaggtgggttgcctgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctgaccaaaatggcgaaaccccatctctactaaaaataaaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggtgtgtgcctgtaatcccagatactcaggaggctgagactgtagaattgcttgaacctgggaggcggaggttgcagttagccgggatggcaccactgcactccagcctaggcgacagagctatactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaaaaaGTAGAATTCggttgggctcagtggctcatgcgtgtaatcctagcactttggaaggccaaggtgggtgaatcacatgaggtcaggaggtagagaccagcatggccaacgtgacgaaacccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggtgtgtgcctgtaatcccagatgtttgggaggctgagacactagaattgcttgaacccgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagtcgagatggcaccactgcactccagcctaggtgacagagtgataccctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagccagccgctgtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggtcaaggcgggtggatcacctgaggtcaggagattgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaactccatctctgctaaaaatacaaaaaaattagccgggcctggtggcaggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccaggaggtggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcacaccactgcactccagcctgggcaacagagcgagactctgtcagagaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCAGGTGATGCCTGTGCCACTGGACACACCTGCACACCATCCTCATGCTGATCACAAAAGAGGGTGAGGggccgggcatggtggctcatgcctggaatcccagcactgggggaggccgaggcgggtggatcacctgaggtctggagttcgagaccagcctgaccaacatggtgaaacctcgtctttactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcacggtggcgggcgcctgtaatccgagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatagcttgaacctgggaggcggaggctgcagtgagctgagattgcaccactgcaccccagcctgggtgacagagcgaggctctatctcaaaaaataaaataaaaaatttaaaaccaacaaaaaAGAGGGTGATGGCTGAGTGAGGAGTCCATGGTGGGCCCTACACAGGGCCCAGGAAGGACAGGGCGGGAAGCGTGAGCATCCTGCCCACCGCAGTGGGTCCGCCATGGAGAGCATGACCTTAGAGAAGCAAAGCCGCCTGGCTCGAAGCAGTGGCCGCCCTGCTGACAGCTGTAGTGGCCGGGTGGCACTCGGGCTGGGGTCCGGGGGAGTCTAGGTGGCCACCTGGCTGTGTGCCTGTGCCTGCCCAAGCTGGGCACCTTTCCCTGGCAGTGCCTGGGAAGCTCGGCCGCCCTCCCTGGCTGGTGCTGCTCTGCAGCCCCGCTCATGGACTCTTGCCCACGGCCTGCTCCTTGTAGCAGGGTCGGGCCGTGGGAGGTCCGGACAGGATCTTGAATGGCCCTGTCTGCGGTCCTGGCTGGCCGGAGGTTGACCGCACTGGACAGGTCAAGGGCCTTAAACCAGGGTAGTGAGGAGCCTGCTGAGCCCCTGCTGCTCCCCGGGCTGCCTTTGGCGCTCGGACAGACACCCAAGGACAGAAGCTCGGACAGCTTCTAAGGCGAAGGGTCTCCCGGGGCTGATTTCCCGGGACTCTGGCTCCTGCAGAGAGGGCTGGAGGCGGGGCTCTGTGTTCCAGGGTCAGAGTCCTCCTGGTGGAAGCTGAGGTGCCTGATTAAATGCCTCCCTTTCTAGGCAGCAGCCCAGACGCGGCACAGAGAGGGCCTGGGAGCTTGCTGCAGCTTCAGGTGAGTTTGTTCCCAAGCCCTGCGGCTCGTTTATGGGTTTGCTTGCGCTGCAGAACTGTTTGTGGAGCAGCAGGGTTGGAGTGCCCACGGCTGGGGGGCCTCTCGGAGCCCTTGATTCACAGAACCCCTGGAGGCCGGCAGCCCTGCCTGCCCTGAAGAGCCTCGTTCTCCCAGCCGTTTGGGCCGTGGTCCTGTCGTGGGAGGCGACGGTGAGGGCGGCCCGGGGTCCCGACAGGGGTGTTTGTCCCTTTGGGGACCTCCCCTGTGCTGTGGCCCCGGCCCCCAGATGGAGCTCCCCATCCCCACGGCAGCGCTGGGGCTGGGGCTGGTGAGGAGCCTGTGCACGGCCCCCACCGCTATCCTCAGCCAGGAGGGTGCCTGGTCCCTGGGGAGCGGCCTGCACCTGTTTCTGGAGAATGCTGTCCTGCCAGTTGTCATTTGGGGCGGGCGGTCGGAGTCCACGTCCTCCCCCAGGGCGGGGCCCTGGCCTTGTTTCTTGTAGGGACGATGGGAAGCCCTGTCCTCAGCCCTCCCACCCGACTCATGCAGGAGCTTCCTGTCCTTGGGGTCATCTCCTCCACAGGGGCCTTAGCGTCAGTGGGGACAAAGGCAGAGTTGCCTGTCTTCAGGTTGTGGGCACCGACTGAGCTTCGTCCCGGTAGTGGCTGGCTCTTGTTTCCTGCCTGGACCAGCAGCCTCTGGTCTGGTGGGTGCAGTTTTAGGGCGCAGTGGGGTTGCCGTGGGGCAAGGCCAGGCCACCAGCTGCCTGGACACAGGGGCCCCCGCTTTCCATCTGCTGCCCCCCACACCCCCAGCTCGGGCAGGGGTGACACCGGGGCATCCTTGTTGGGGTCGCTGTGGTTCCCATGGTGGCAAGATGGCTCTGTGAAAGATTGACGGAGATGTAGGGCCCAGGAGCAGGTGCTGTGTGAGTGGGACACGCCTGTGTCACCTGCGGGGCAGGGGAGGGCTCGGGGGTACAGCCGTGTACATGATTAGTTAGCGAGACAGTGAGGAGTGTATGCGGAGTGGACACAGCTGTGGGTGCCGCCCGCGCAAGGCTGGGGGTCGCTGTGCCAGCCCTGCTCCCATGTGGGCTCCCAGCTCCCCAGGTAGGGACGCTGACCCCGGGAGGTGCCTTTGCCTGCATCCACTGGAGCCTCAGGAGCATGCGTTCCGTCCCCACGGGTCACCCCCACTGAGCCCACCACCTACCGAGAGGCACCTCGAGACCCTGTCCTGCCACGGGTGGGCTGTCAAGGCCAGCACCAGAGACCCCCAGCAGACCTCAGTGGCCGCAGATGGAGCGGGGCGGCAATGGTCACCTCCGGGACTCAGCCCTGTGCTGAGCCCCGGGCAGTGTGATCATCCTGGCCCTTCTCGTGCACGTCCCCTGGCTGGATGCTCCTTGCTGCCCTCACGGGGTGTGTGTGTGGCATACAGGACAGGGACCGGCCAGTTGGCCCTGCTCATTAACCACTTGTCCCCACAGGGCAGTGGCGGCCTCACCTCTGCAATTCTCTGAGGCTGGATCTAGGCCACCGCCCCGTTTAAAACTAGGGCATCGGCTCCCAGGGAGGGCGGGGAGCTGCACAGTTGGACTTGTGGGGGTCAGGCATGGATCCACACAGCCCGGGGCCCTCCGCACCCTGCCCCTCCAGGGAGCCCAGAGGCGGGCGTGGCTGCAGCCTGGCTCTGTGGCAGTCATGAGTCACGGCCACTCTTGAGGCGCCGCCCTGAGAGTCAGCCCTGTGGTCACGGCTCCTGCTGGTTCCCATTCGCGAGCACCTGAAACAGCCTGGCCCACAGCAGAGGCCCGGGGGGCACATGCAGCTCACGGGAGCAGCACAGATGCTTGGCCGGCGGCAGGCCCTACAGGAGCAGCAGCGGCCCAGGGCATGTCCCTGGGGTCAGGGGTCAGAGTTCGGCATGCTCTGCGGGGGCCTCACCCTGCTGTCCCTCGGCCTGGCCTGGGCACACTCCTTGGTGACAGTGCCCCTGCACGCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCGGTTATTCAGACAGGGAGCCAGGATGGGAACCACGGACTGACCTGACCTGCGTCCTCGGGGCCACTGCACTGGGTGATTCACGTGTGCCCAGGCCCTGAGGTGGGCCGGACCTGGGAGTGGCAGGTGAGCGTTCCTCCCAAGAGCCTCTGGCTGGCCGCAGCAGGCCCTGTCCCTGCTGTCCTCAGTGGCCCTGGACATGATAACCCCCCTGCCGAGGTCTGGCCGGAGCCAGCACCCACGGCCGAGATGCAGTCAGCCCTGGCTGGGCGCTGTCCCTGGGGGTGGCTGCTGGTGCTGCCCTCCCTCCTTCCCACCACTTCTTGCTCCTCTTTCCTGGGGCCCTCCCATCGGAGTCTTCCTCCTAAATGCAGTTCCCTCCCTCTAGGGGAACGCGGGCTGGGAGCCTAttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgtcgccccggctggagtgcagtggcgcggtctcggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccggattcaggccattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggattacaggcgcccgccaccacgcccagctaattttttgtgtgtttttagtagaaacagggtttctccatcttgcgcaggctagtcttgaactcctgacctcgtgatccacccacctcggcctcccacagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccactgcacctggccTGGGAGCCTTTTCCGTAGCTGCTCATCCTGTACTAGCATCTGTCCATCATGAGTGGACGGAACACAGGGGGACCCAGGACCCACAGCTGCACTCGGGAAGGCCAGCAGGGTGGATTTCGGGAAGAGCATCGGTGCCAGTTTCCCACAGTCACCCTTGCGATGGGACCCTCAGGTTGGCACGTGGCTGGCAGCTGTGTCCCGGGAGCTCTTGCTCCTTAGTGGGCCTCGCCAGCCAGGGCAGGGCCCCCGGCACCCCTCACGGGGCTCTTGACTCCTCTGGCAGCGGATCGGGGCGGTTCAGCGATACCATCTCTGGAGATCCCCTGGCGTGTGCTGGAAAAACCCCGGAGAGGGCTTAACAGAGCCAGCTGTCCAGCCTCTGTGACAGGGACGTTTGCTTTTCTCTGCAGGGTCCTCTCTTCTCTTCCGAGCACCCACGGGAGGGGACTGTGCTGTCCCTGCTCTCCTAGGACAGGCCTCCCTCCTGTCCAGATGGGGCCCACAGGGTCAGTTGCCTGAGACTGGCTCCAGCTCAAGAAAGGTTTTCTGAGTGAGCGCAGGGGAGCAGGAGGCTGGTGAGCAGCTCGCTTCCTGCCCTGGGTGCAGCTGGGCACCACTTCTGCCTTGGGCCTAAAGGCATCAGTGAGGAGCAGGCGGGGCCTGGTAGGAGCCTGTGTTTCTAGCGGCACGCGTGACCCCAGGTGCCACGTGGGTGAGTGCGTGGGTGGGTGAGTGGCGAAGGAGCTGAGGTTGGCCCTGGCAGGTGTGCAGTCCTCACACAGAACGGGCAGGGCTCCTGTCAGAGCCAAACCAGCTCAGGGCCCAGTGCAAGCAGCTTCTGTCCCGTGGCACCTCCGCTAGTCGCCGCTCCCACCCAAGCCCTGCCCCGCCCTGACCCGCTCAGGGTTTGGCTACAGAAGGGGAGTGTCGGAAATGCCCAACCCGTCTCCCGTGAGGGACTCCTGCGTGGCCTGGGCTGGGGAACGCAGGGGCCGTTTGGGTGGTTCCGGCGTCTGGCGTAGCCACGCGAGAGGCCCTGGGTTGATGCGTGGGCTCCCTGCTAGCGAGCCTGCTCCGTGCGTGCTGGGCTCCCGGCCTTGCTTCCGTGTGGCATTCGAGACCCCGTGGACCTCGCCTGCGTCCTGCATGTTTGAGCGCTGCCCCTTGTGGAGGCCGCCAGCACTGGTGGCTGCAGGGCCTGTAGTGTGGCACGTCCAGAGACCCGGCCTGGAGAACGGGTCCTGGATGTCTCCGTCATGTTTTACGTTCGCTTCACACGGACGCAGCGATGTCTCAGATACCTCGGATCACACAGAGCACGTCGCCAAGGCTTGTTTTGTCTGTTCCTTTCCACCTGTCTTACGTGGATACCAGGAGATCCGCCACGACTCCCGTGGCCCCGTCCACACTGCGCGGCGCTCTCCGGCGTGGCCGCCAGGTGCCCCTTCGAGGGCAGGTGTGAGTACAGGGTGGTCCCTGTGGAGAAGCGCCTGCAGGCGAGTGAGCCAGGCTGTGCCCTGCTgaccccgaggcctgaatttcatggaactcccacctctcacagagtattgtttttttttttgatttttttccaaccatttaaaaatgtaaaagccattgttgacttgcgggctggaccaggcttagggctgggctctggtccgcACCCCACACTGGCCCCGTGTGTCCTGTGACCGTTCTGCCTACGGGGCAGGCCTGAGCCACCACAGGATGGCAGGGTCTCCAGGGTGCAGGGCCCGCAATGCTTCAACCCTCCCACGACCCCAGCACCTTCAGAGAAAACGGACCCTCGTGCCGAGTGAAGTGGTTCAGGCGAACGTTATCACCACACGGGGGACTCGGCGGCTTCTGCCCCAGGCCTCAAAGGAGAGGGGATCCAGAATTCTCTGTCTCACCCCCTCAGCCCCTGCCCTTGAAGCTTCTGTCCCCAAGGCTGTGGGGAGGAACCAGGGAAGGGCTGGCGCGTCTGCTGTGCGATCCCAGGTGCTCGTGCCTCGCTGAGCTCAGCCCCTGTGGCCTCAGAGCTGCAGGCCCCTCCCGGGTGTCAGAGCACTGACTGGAAAGGCCCCCCACATCCCTGCCCTCTGCTGCTCCCCATCGTCGCGGGGGAGAAGCTGGAACTGCACCCCCACCCCCCCCAGCCCGCTCACCTAGGGCTGCCCCCAGGCCTCCCTGAGCTCCAAAGGATATGTTCTTTGGTGCtttttttttttttggctctgtctcccaggctggaatgcagctgtggtgctcacgccatcctcccacgtcagcctcctgagtagctaggtctacaggtgcacaccaccacacccggatagtgtttagttttctataaagacagggtctcactgtgttgcccaggctggtctcaaactcttgggctcaggtgatcccccACGCACGGCAGCTTTGACACTTACTTGACCCTTTCCTCCTAAGCTCTACCCTGACGCTGGCTGTGTGTCCCAGAGACTTAATCAGAAGCTGGAAGAAGGGCTGTGACGTGTGTGACAGCAGGAACTGCTGGTCAACCCACAGCCGGCCAGCCTGCCGGGACGCCATCTTGGCCCCAATCTTGGCAGGGAGAGGGGAGTGTATCGGACTCTGGGGAGAGCAGCTGCCTGCACGGGCAGGGTCCTCCCGTCTCAGGATTAACGTTCTCAACTGTATTTGATTTCTCCTCAGCCAGAGGGGGTAAGGTGGCCTTCCCAGAAGCACAGGTGGGCCGCGTGTCAGAGGCCCTGGACAGCCTGTGCCTCTCCCAGGCCTCCCAGCAGGGGTGGCTCTCGCCCCTCTGGAGGGGAGACCCCAGGAACCGGCCCCCGCCCTCAGCCATAGCCTCACAGGGTCCTTGTTTCTCGGGGCCTGGCTCTGTGGGTGCACAAGGCATGGTCGGGCTCCCGTCCTTCTGGAAGTCTCCAGAGTGGCATGTGGGCAGCTGTGTGAAGCGGCCCCCCAGATCTTCATCCAGCCTGGCCTGCAGCAGCTCCCTACGCCCTCTGCTACCTCCCCTGCCTACCTTTGGGTAGACGTTCTCTTGACCCTTCCTTCTGTGATAAAGCAAAAGCGTGTGATCTCTTTTCTCACCAAGGAATAAAACGTCTCTGAATACCACAGACGTGATGCCGGGCTTTTGGGGGCCGGGGGGTGTCCTAGGGCCCCGAGGGAGGAGCCCTGTGGGTGCCGAAGTCGGGCCGCAGGCCCTGCACTGAGATGTCCCCTCAGCCTACCCCAGGCGGCTGGGCATGCTGGGAAGTCCTCCCGGGCTGTGTGTGTGAATCATGCTGTTTCTTCTCTATTTTCTCTCTCTGTCTGTTTATTTTTGTTGTGTGTCACTCTGCCCAGCCGGCCGTCCTGTCTCTTCCCTCCATGCTCCGCTTCGCCCGCTGCTGGCCAGAGGTGACCAGGTCCGGCTCTCAGCACGGCCGCCGGCCGGGGGGCCATGGGGAGCTCCGCCTCCTCCCTGGCCGCAGAGACCGAGTCGGACCACAGCTTCCCCGGGGGACCGCCCTACCCGGGTCCCCCGGCAGCGGCTGGCTGGTGTAGGAGCGGCCCAGGGGGGCCCGTCTGGGGAGGTGCCCTGGTCAGCCGGCAGCACCAGCCCCCACGGCCCCGGGCCCGAAGGTAAGAGGTGGGGAGGGGTGGCCCCGGAGGGCTCCCGGGGGCAGAGGGCCTCGTTCTCAGGGTGCCCCCTCCTTGGCAGAGGTGCTTGCAGAGAAGTGGGTCCCTGCTCCTTCCAGTTGTGGCAGCTCTCTTCCCCAGGGTGCAGGAGCTGAGCAGGTCTGAGACCCCGGCCTCGGCCTGGCTGGTTGGTGGTGGGGATGGGGGCTAGTGCGCCCAATCCCGGCGGCCCTGTGTTTCTCACAGGCTGTGCTGCTCCACGCAGAGAAGCTGTTCCTGAAGCTTCTTTTTGGGCTGGGGTCGCTGGCGGCTGCAGGCTCTGGGCATATTGCCTGCTGCCCACGGTTTCAAAGCTGCCAGCACTCGCTGGGCTCCGCCTGCTGCCCCCCCGGGGGTCACAGGCCACATGGCTTGGTGGCCGAACTCCACGTGCTGGCTCCTCACAGCTGTCACCATGGCCTTGGCTACCCGCTGCGTCCCTCAGGAGCTGCCATCAGGTTCTGAGGTGCCTGGTCTGGAGGCAGTCCAGGTGGTGAGGTCTGGACTGGCTGGACCCCACCGATGCTCCTGCCGTCACCCCGTCCTGGCCCTCACTGGAGGCAGGGACACTCAGGGGCCCGGGGCCTCGGGGCCAGTGCTGCAGTGGCCGCCGTTGCTCTCACAGCGGGTCCAGGCCTGGCTTCTGAAGGCAATGTGCCTGCGTCTCACACTCAAAAGGGCCTGCCAGGCTGCACCTGGCGGCAGCTCCCACGGGGGACGATGTCCTGCTGTCTGTTGGCCCCCAGGTGGGAGGGACGGGCGTGGAGCTGCAGGCAGTGGGCAAGGCCATGGCAGGTGGCCAGGCCTGGGAACCAGCCTCCAGGTGGCATCCACGCTGAGGCCTGAGCTCCGGCCGACAAGGACTGGGGATGCAGGGGATTAGCCAGGGGCTGTGTGGGGGAGCCCTGGAGCCCTGTCTGCGAGTTACCCCGATGAACAGGGAGACGCGGCAGAGGCAGGGCCGGGGAGGGGCCGTGTGGGGGAGCCCTGGAGCCCTGTCTGCGAGTTACCCTGATGGACAGAGAGACGCGGCAAAGGCAGGGCCGGGGAGGGGCCGTGTGGGGCCTGGTGGTCGGCAGAGGAAGGGTCTGTGCTCCTCCTGCGTGTGGTGGCACCGGAGCGCCTCCCAGTTCCTGGTGTTACCGCACCAGCCGCCTCCCAGTGAGCATCTCCACGTGTGCCGACaacagctttgttgaggtagaacttaccagactcacctgttaaaagagtgcagtttggtcactcttagtggtttgtagagttgtgcagccgtcattgcaatccagcgttgcagcattccacagcccacagggacccccagccccacagtccagtgttacagcatcccgcagcccagagggaccctcagccccagacggccactgaccggcttcctgtcttggtttgcctTGTGCAGAAGGTGCGTGGATGTGGGGCCACAGGACGTGGCTGGCTGGGTTTGCCTTGTGCAGAAGGTGCGTGGATGTGGGGCCACAGGACGTGGCTGGCTGGGTTTGCCTTGTGCAGAAGGTGCGTGGATGTGGGGCCACAGGACGTGGCTGGCTGGGTTTGCCTTGTGCAGAAGGTGCGTGGATGTGGGGCCACAGGACGTGGCTGGCtgggtttgccttgtgcagaaggtgcgtggacgtggggccacaggacgtggggccccgtgtctggcctcttcactcggcaccgtgccctccagattcatgcacctgcagcccgaggcagtttcattcactgctcctttgcgggatgaaccgcattttatctattcatggacgctaggactgcttccacgtggcttctgtggacaatgctgtgaacattgtttacgaggttttgcgtggacctgttttcatttatcttgcatagatacctaggagtgggattgctggggcgtgtggtgaactttcataatgtcttgaggaactgccaagccatcttccgcagcggctgcattacctagttcccaccggcaacgctggggagggtcctggcgtctccactccctcgacagctcctgccgttgtctgtccttgtgattctggccgtcccagggggtgggagctggtgtccccttggctttgatctgcgtttccctggtggccagccatgtggggcctctctccctgtCTCATCCACCCGTGCCTGTCtttttttcattcattcacttatttatttatttagagacagggtcttactctgtcacccaggctggagtacagtggtgtgatcacagctcactgcagcttctacttcctgggttcaagagaacctcccatctcagcctcccaagtagctggaactacaggcgtgcaccaccatagctggttaattAGAAAAAAAAAATTTggccaggcgcagtagctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggtagatcacctgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaacaaaaattagctgggcgtggtgacgggcacctataatcctagctactagggaggctgaagcaggagaatcgcttgaacttgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccaagattgcaccactgcactccagtgtgggcgacagagtgagactctgtctcaaaataaaaatacaaaCcctgagcttgggagggtccaggctgcaatgagctgcgatcgtgccaccgcactccagcttgggcgacacagtgagacgctagacggtgtctcaaaaaacttaaacagaaaaaTGTAGAAAGGATTGTCGTTCCCTTTCTCGTTTTCCAGAGGGCAGAGGACTCTCGGCCCCTGCTTTTTGAGCACCAGGCCGAGTTTCAGACCTCGGGATGGCCTCTCCAGTCTGCAGCTCCCGGCAGCCTCGGGCCACACTCCCGGGATCCCCAGGGACTGGCCTGGGACTACCGGGGGTGGCGGCCGTGGCTCTGGCTATGGGGAGGGAGGCAGAGCCGCGGGGCAGGCGTGGGGTCTGCTGTGCCGGGTATGTGGGGCGTGTGTTAGACTTTGGACCTGGCCTGCGGGGTCAGGCCGTGGTGTATGATGACGCCACGCCGCTCTTTCTCTTTCACCCTGGCCTCCTGCCTGGCCCTCCCCTGGGTCGGCATCCCTGGGGCCACTCCTGCCCGTGCCCGCTGCTGTGGGGCCTGGGCTCCAGGCAGCTCCTGTCTGCTGCTGCAAACAGGCCCCCAAGGTGCATGGTGAGGAGACCCCCAGGCTAGAGATGGGCGAGAGCGGTGGGCGAGCAGACTGCGGGAAGGCAGCTGGGCCTCCACACGCGGAGCCCTCCCCACCACGTGCATGCACAGGCGACCCCTGCCGTGCTCCGACGGAGGGCGCCGGGACTGGGGAGGGTCAGCGCGACAGCCCTGGCGTTTACTGAAGAGCTGCCTGCCTGGCTCGCTGCCCTGGTGGCCGCTGAATTCTCCCAACGCCCCAGGACAGCAGGTGCTGTGGCCCCATGACCGCTCCCCCACATGGATGAAGGGGTGGTGCACAGGCTGGTGGAGCCTGGGAGAGCCAGGGCAGCCTGCGGCCATGCGGCCATGCGGCCGGCGTGGGGCTGAGGTCCCTGTACAGCTGACAGAGTGCCTGGCGCCCTCAATCAGTAAGTCATCTACGGGCCGGGCACCGGCGGCTCAGCACAGAGAGGCAACAAGGGTAGACCCCCCCTGGCAAGGCTGACCGGCGCCGGGCTGTGGCCAGACCAGGAGACTGCAGCCCAGCTCGAGGGAGGCACCACGCCTGCCCCTCAGAGCACTGAGCAGAGCCCCCCATGGTATCCCCCGCCCTGGGCACAGCAGGAGGAGCTGCCGACCAAGTCTGGCACCCCGGTGTGCCCCGAGAGCTGTCTGGGCACAGGTTGCGGGGCTGCCCCGGCCGGACGGGGCATCTGTGTTTCTCGGTGTGGCCTCAGGGCTCTGGTGGCTTTGACCGAGGCCCCGGGGGACAGAATGCAGCTTCCTGCTCCTCACTTTTCCTAAGAAAGGGGCCGCCTCCCAGGACTGGGGCTGCGCCAGTCACAGGCCCGCGGCCTCCACGCTCCGGGTGCTGCTGTCCCGGCTGCTTCAGGGCGGGCTCTGTCTTGCACGCAGCGAGCGGCTTCATCACCTCCCTTTTGAATTGGAGCTGAGTGTCGGCAACGCCCAGATAACTGGGGCGCGCGGGTCTTTTGTGCTGGATTTTTCTGTACAGTTGCCTCGATCTTCCATCCAGCTTGGCCTCTGTGCAGTAAGGAGCGGCCCGTCGCCTCCCCCACGtcgcctcccccacgtcgcctcccccacgtcgcctcccccacgtcgtcgcctcccccacgtcgcctcccccacgtcgtctcccccacgtcgtcgtctcccccacgtcgcctcccccacgtcgcctcccccacgtcgcctcccccacgtcgcctcccccacgtcgcctcccctcACGTCGTCGTCTCCCCCCACGTCGTCGTCTCCCCTCACGTCGTCTGCCCTGAGCCCGCTCCCTTCGAAGGTAACCATCCTGCAGTAGTGAGGGCTCCTTGCTGAGCACGTGTGGCTGCGACTTCAGGAGCGTTCTGGGTTGAGAATTCCAAAAGGGCTTCGCTCAGGCCTGGCTTTGGGTCTTTGGGCTCCTGACGCGAGCTTTTACTTCCAGGCTTTGGCGGTCTGGCctcaggaggtcaaggctgcagtgagccgtgcgcgagccactgcaccatcctgggcaatcagaccccatctctaaaGTTCAAAACAACATCTTTGTAAGGGTTTCGGGTCTCTGAGCCCATGAACCTGCCCAGGCCCTGCAGAGGTGAGGGTGGCCCTAGAGTGGCTGGGGGGTTGTGGAGACCAGAACCAGGGCAGAAGGGCAGGGAGGGTGGGGGCCCTGCCGAGGTCTCCCACCGCTGACCCCTGACCCCTGGCCCCCTTCCACCTCGGCCCACCGAGAGAGGCCGGCACAGCGCAGACTGCGGGGTCAGTGACACTCCCCTCAGCGTCTCCAGCCACAGAAGGGCCGTGGCCTGCCTTCGCCCTCCTCACCCGTGTCCCGGGGCCACGTTTGAACTTTAGGCCTTGTTCTGACTTCATTGAAACCCTCCTGAAGTGCAGACGTCTTCCTGACCCACCTGGGTTTTGCCAGGATGACTCCGAAAGGTGTCTCCCAGCAGACACACCCCGCTGGCGATTGTTTGGTCCTGGGGACCCGGGTTCTCATTCTCCTCTCTGGAGCTGGTGAGGCTGTCCTTGCTAGTCGGTGACAACTACAGGGCCAAAGGGAGGGTGTGTCCCAGGAGGCCCAGCCCACCTCTGCCTGCACCTGCGGTCAGCGGGGTGCAGAGTCTGTGAAGGCACCTCCCGGAGTGGGGGCTGCAAAGATCATGGCCACTGTGCCACCCACAGGGGCCCAGGCCGGACGCCTGGGCTGTGCCGCCTCGGCAGCCAGGCCGAGGAACGTGCAGGTGCGGCCGGGAGCCCGCCGGCCACAGCTGCATCCATGCCCTTCTCCGAGTGGTGATGGCGGGGAGAGGCCTGGCTGTCTACGGGCAGATTGCTTGGGCTTTCACAGAAGCCCGCTGTTAGAGCAGATTCCCGGCCTTGGGTCTCTCTGCTCCAGCTGGACGCCCTGAGCCTCGCCGGGCCCAGTCCACCCCCGTCCACTCTGCCAGGGGCAGCTCAGAGCCCTCGCCACGCGGGGCTGAGCGCAGGGAAGGCAGCATCACGGAGTTCGCTCGGCTCCACAGAACACCCGTGTTGCTCGCGGAGACTTTTTGTTTTTGTGCTTCTTATGAAGAGGCAGGTTTTCTTTCTTCCTGAACCAAAAGGGTTTAGATGGAGCACAAGATTCAGGCCATATTTACAAGAACAATTGATTTTTCTGCCAGGCAGAGCAGCCAGTCTGTCTCGGAGGCTGTGCTGTGGTGTGGGGAGGCCCCTTGCTCAGATCAGCCTGTGCCTTCCCCAGGCCCCGGCCCATGCACCTGCCCTTCCGTAGGTCTGAGCACCTGTTCTTCCACGCCCAGGACGACCTGGTCCTGAGTTTGGCCGGGACCCCCTGCTATCTGCCGTCCACAGGCCTGGTGACAGAGAAAGCAGTGCCCTGGAACAGCAGCCCGGCTGTGGGGTGCTCAGCCCTCTCTGTAGGATCCTGTGTGGCTCAAGGGGTCTGCTGAGCCTCCAACGGGCAAGAGGGGCCCTGAGCCATGGATCCATTCTGGGTGGAGGCAGCCCCCACCGCCGCCTGCCTCAAATGCTCAGCCCTAGGCCCTCGGCCCCGTAGCTCTGCAGCCACAGACGGGTGCCTTCCCCAGGCCGAGAGGAGGGTGGGGTCCAGCCACTCAGGACCTCACAGGGTGGCCCTGATGAGCACCTTCCCTTGCAGCCACACCCACTCGCCCGGGTCTATGGCCACGGTCGGAGAGTGGTCCTGTGTGCGCTGCACCTTCCTGAACCCGGCCGGCCAGCGCCAGTGCTCCATCTGCGAGGCTCCCCGGCACAAGCCCGACCTCAACCACATCCTGCGGCTCAGCGTGGAGGAGCAGAAATGGCCCTGCGCCCGCTGCACCTTCCGCAACTTCCTGGGCAAGGAGGCCTGCGAGGTGTGCGGCTTCACCCCGGAGCCTGCGCCTGGGGCTGCCTTCCTGCCAGTCCTCAACGGGGTCCTCCCCAAGCCACCCGCCATCCTGGGGGAGCCCAAGGGCAGCTGCCAGGAGGAAGCAGGTCCAGTGAGGACTGCGGGGCTGGTGGCCACGGAGCCCGCCAGGGGGCAGTGCgaggacaaggacgaggaggagaaggaggagcaggaggaggaggaggGAGCGGCGGAGCCCAGAGGGGGCTGGGCGTGTCCGCGTTGCACGCTGCACAACACGCCCGTGGCCAGCTCCTGCTCCGTCTGCGGGGGCCCACGCAGGCTCTCGCTGCCACGGATCCCTCCTGAGGCCCTGGTGGTCCCGGAAGTGGTGGCCCCGGCCGGCTTCCACGTCGTGCCTGCCGCGCCTCCACCTGGCCTCCCCGGGGAAGGTGCCGAGGCCAACCCCCCAGCCACCAGCCAGGGCCCAGCTGCCGAACCAGAGCCGCCCAGGGTCCCGCCCTTCAGCCCCTTCTCGTCCACCCTGCAGAACAACCCCGTGCCGCGCAGCCGACGCGAGGTTCCCCCCCAGCTGCAGCCACCGGTGCCTGAGGCTGCCCAGCCGTCACCCTCTGCCGGCTGCAGGGGAGCCCCCCAGGGCTCGGGCTGGGCTGGGGCCTCCCGCCTAGCAGAGTTGCTGTCTGGCAAGCGGCTGAGTGTGCTGGAGGAAGAGGCCACGGAGGGTGGCACCAGCCGCGTAGAGGCCGGCAGCTCCACCTCGGGCAGTGACATCATTGACCTGGCCGGAGACACCGTGCGTTACACGCCCGCCAGCCCCTCCAGCCCCGACTTCACCACCTGGTCATGTGCCAAGTGCACGCTCAGAAACCCCACAGTGGCCCCCAGGTGCTCGGCCTGCGGCTGCTCCAAACTGCACGGCTTCCAGGAGCATGGCGAGCCCCCCACCCACTGCCCCGACTGTGGGGCCGACAAGCCCAGCCCCTGCGGCAGAAGCTGCGGACGGGTGTCCTCGGCCCAGAAGGCCGCCCGCGTCCTGCCCGAGCGCCCGGGCCAGTGGGCCTGCCCTGCCTGTACCCTGCTCAACGCACTGCGGGCCAAGCACTGCGCCGCCTGCCACACGCCTCAGCTCCTGGTGGCCCAGCGGCGGGGGGCCGCGCCCCTGAGGCGCAGGGAGAGCATGCACGTGGAGCAGCGGCGGCAGACAGACGAGGGCGAGGCCAAGGCACTCTGGGAGAACATCGTGGCCTTCTGCCGGGAGGTGAGGCGCCCCCTCGCCCTCTTCCTGCTCCTGAGCCTCCTGCTCCCGCCCTCCCCTTCCTAGGCTTTGGGCTCTGGCGATGGGCTGGGGAGGAGCCCACAAGGCCTAAGACGTGATGGGGAGGGCAGCACCCTCCGCCCCGAGGCTCCAAGCTCCCAATGGCCCTGGGGTCCAGCTTGGCCTCCTGACCCTTGGTCCTTGCTGGTGACCGAGATGCACGACCTTCACCCCCCTCAACCCTCCACCGTGGCCAGGAGGGCCCCGAGCCCCGTCTGATGTGCCGCAGGAGGCGAGGGCTTCCCAGGGGCAGCGTGGAGACCCCGCTGAAGTGCGAGGTCGGGATGTACCCGTGCTCCGCCCTCTAGAGTCCAGGATGGCATCACCCACGGGTCAACTGGGGCGCAGCCTGCACCCTCCCCAGCAGGGCCAGGGCCAGAGTCGTGCTGCCACCCACTGGGGGCTGCGCTGTCCCCCTGGGCCCACACGTCCCCTGCTCCTCACCTGTCGCCAGCCGGTGGCCTCTCCACTAGGGCTGAGGGCTTCCTCGACACAGGGCCGGCGCCAGGTCTGTGGCTGTCCACGCTCCACCCGTCCCTTTGGGGCTCAGGCAGTGCTTTTGGGCGCTCTCCTGGGTGGGGTCTTGTCCCTGCCAGGTGGAGCGAGGCCACCCTGCCCAGCCTGAGCACATGGCCGTGGTCTCTGCAGAACAATGTGAGCTTCGTGGATGACAGCTTCCCTCCCGGGCCCGAGTCTGTCGGCTTCCCCGCGGGTGACAGCGTGCAGCAGCGTGTGAGGCAGTGGCTGCGACCCCAGGAGATCAACTGCTCCGTCTTCAGGGACCACAGGGCCACGTGGTCTGTGTTCCACACACTGCGGCCCTCAGACATCCTGCAGGGGCTGCTGGGGAACTGCTGGTGAGGCCTTCTCCAAGGCCGGGGTGGGGCGGGTGGGCGGGCGACCGGCCGCGGTCCCCGCGAGGTCACCCTGAGGCTCTGCGCAGGTTCCTGAGCGCCCTGGCGGTGCTGGCGGAGCGGCCGGACCTGGTGGAGCGGGTGATGGTCACGCGCAGCCTGTGTGCAGAGGGCGCCTACCAGGTGCGGCTGTGCAAGGACGGCACGTGGACCACGGTGCTGGTGGACGACATGCTGCCCTGTGATGAGGCCGGCTGCCTCCTCTTCTCACAGGTGGGGCGGCCTGCAGGGTGGGCACGGGCGGCAGGGGCAGCCTCTGACCCCAGCCCCGAAAACAAGGCCGGCTGCTTCCTCTTCTCCCAGGGCGGGTAGTGTGGGGGGCGGGCGGGGGTGGCCTCTGACCCGGCCCTCTGCAGGCGCAGCGGAAGCAGCTGTGGGTGGCCCTCATCGAGAAGGCGCTGGCCAAGCTGCACGGCTCCTACTTTGCGCTCCAGGCGGGCCGCGCCATCGAAGGCCTGGCCACGCTCACCGGCGCCCCCTGTGAGAGCCTGGCGCTGCAGCTCAGCTCCACTAACCCCCGCGAGGAGCCCGTTGACACTGACCTCATCTGGGCCAAAATGCTGAGTTCTAAGGAGGCTGGGTAAGAGGAGGGGCACTGCGTGGTCAGCCGCGTTGGGAGGAGAGGCGAGGCGGAGCGGTGGGAGATGTGGGGCTGGTGGCCCCTGACCCAGTTCTGCTTCCACGAGGTGCCCCTGGCGTGGGCTGACCCCGCGTGGCCAGGCCACAGCCCCAATCACCTCCCCCTCCCTGGGCGGGGCTGGAGCTGGCCTTCTCATGCCAGGAAGGCCACATCCTGGCCAGGCCGTGGGGCGAGACCGATGCCGTCACCCCGGAGCAGGTGTGAGCGGCGTGTCGAGTTTGACCTGGGCCGTGGGGCGAGACTGATGCCGTCATCCGCCTCGGGGCAGGCGTGAGCGGCGTGTCGAGTTTGGCCACACTCTGGTCAGCGGGTCTGTGCCTCGACCCCCAGGGGCCTCCTCGGAGTGCCCCGGTGCGAGCACCTTGAAGCTCCCGGAGCCCTCCTCTCAGCTGACCCTGGGCAGTGCTGCTGCCCACCCCCCACCCGCCCGGGAGCCACAGAGCCCAGAGCCAGCCCCACAAGGCCTCCAGGGGACCCAGGCCTGCCACCCCTGACTCAGGCCCTGTGCGCTTCAGGCATGGTGGAGGGGGCTGGTCCAGACCCTCCTGAACACTTCACGTGGTCCCTACAGGCAGGAGTGGGCCCTTCTCTGCTGCGCCTGCCTGTCTTGGTGGCAAGGTCGCGGCCAGCGAGGGCACTGGTCAGCAAGGCCCCGGTCAGTGAGGGCCCCGCTCAGCCATGCCCCCAGTCGGTGAGGGCCCCACTCAGCCATGCCCCTGGTTAGTGAGACCCCCTGTCAGTGAGGGTTCCCTGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGCCCCCAGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCTGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCTGCCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTGCCCCGTCGGTGATGGCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCTGTCGGTGAGGTCCCTGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCAGTGAGGGTCCCCTTTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCTGTCTGTGAGGGCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCTGTTGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCTGTCGGTGAGGGCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGTCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGCCCCTGTTGGTGAGGGCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGCGCCCCGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCAGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCAGTGAGGGTCCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCCTGTCGGTGAGGGTCCCGGTCGGTGAGGGCCGCTCTGCCACACAGGTTCCTCATGGGTGCCTCCTGTGGCGGGGGCAACATGAAGGTGGACGATTCGGCCTACGAGAGCCTGGGCCTGCGCCCCCGGCATGCCTACTCCATCCTGGATGTCCGAGATGTCCAGGGCACCAGGTAGGGCCGGCCTGGCTGAGGGTGGGTGGGGTGCCGGTGAGACTCGGGCAGTGTGGTTCAGATCCTCACCCCTGTGGTCTGCAGGCTTCTGCGGCTCCGAAACCCGTGGGGCCGTTTCTCCTGGAACGGCAGCTGGTCCGACGAGTGGCCACACTGGCCGGGGCACCTGCGTGGCGAGCTCATGCCGCACGGCAGCAGTGAGGGTGTCTTCTGGATGGAGTACGGCGACTTTGTCAGGTATCGGCACCGTGGGGCGGTGTGCACGCCGCCCCCGCCCTCCTAGGGCCGAGTCCTTCTCTGGAGAACAAGCCTGTCCCTCCTGCTGACCTGGGGTGGGGCGGCTTGTTCGTGGCCCAAATGGGACCTGGAGCTTCAGCTCCAAGGTGCCAACCTCAGAATTCAGGTCCACCCAGGTCAGCAGATTCCAGCGCCCTGAAGAGCCGGCCCTGGAGGGCTTCCTATTATAGGCCTCAGGGATGGGCCCCCGGGGGCCGGGCTGCAAGAGGACGGTGACGGAGCAGCTGGCACCTGCTGGGGTCACCGGCCTGTGGTTGCGGTAGGCGCTGAGCCACGGAGGTGTGGGCCGTGGTAGGCTCAGGGCCCCGTCCTCCCGCCACCTGCAGGTACTTCGACTCCGTGGACATCTGTAAGGTGCACTCGGACTGGCAGGAGGCGCGGGTGCAGGGCTGCTTTCCCAGCTCGGCCAGCGCGCCCGTGGGGGTAACAGCGCTCACGGTGCTGGAGCGGGCCTCGCTGGAGTTCGCGCTCTTCCAGGAGGGCAGCAGGTGGGTGCTGCGGGGCCCCATCGGGCTGGGCTGGGCTAGGCTGGCGGCCGTGACCACGCGTGACCCTGGCCCGTGGTGTCTGGCGCAGGCGCTCGGACGCCGTGGACAGCCACCTGCTGGACCTGTGCATCCTGGTGTTCCGGGCCACGTTCGGCAGCGGCGGCCACCTCAGCCTGGGCCGCCTCCTGGCCCACAGTAAGCGCGCGGTCAAGAAGTTCGTCAGCTGCGACGTCATGCTGGAGCCTGGCGAGTACGCTGTGGTGTGCTGCGCCTTCAACCACTGGGGGCCGCCCCTGCCGGGCACCCCTGCCCCCCAGGGTACGTGGCCCCTACCCCAGGCTCATGCCCCAGGCCCACGGGGAGGGCTGCGGTTCACACGCCCGTCCTTGTAGCCTCCAGCCCCTCGGCAGGGGTCCCGAGAGCCTCCCCAGAGCCGCCGGGCCACGTGCTGGCTGTGTACAGCTCGAGGCTGGTCATGGTGGAGCCCGTGGAAGCCCAGCCGACCACGCTGGCCGACGCCATCATCCTGCTCACCGAGAGCCGCGGAGAGCGGCACGAGGTGGGTGGGGGTCCCGGGGGAGGGTGGCGTGGGGCAGGGGGAGTATGCCCCAGCACCTCCCCTGCCCCACAACTGCCATTCCTGTGCCCAGGGCCGTGAGGGCATGACCTGCTACTACCTGACACACGGTTGGGCGGGGCTCATCGTGGTGGTGGAGAACCGACACCCCAAGGCCTACCTGCACGTGCAGTGTGACTGCACCGACAGCTTCAACGTGGTGTCCACACGCGGCAGCCTGCGTACCCAGGATAGCGTGCCACCCCTGCACAGGTGcgcccccgcccctgcccccccacccctgcacaggtgccccctcccctaccccgctgcacccacacccaactcgtgcccccccacccctgcacaggtgccccctcccctaccccgctgcacccacacccaacccatgccccccccacccctgcagaggtgtgctcatacccctgcccccacccctgTACGGGTGTTTGTCACCCCACTCCTGCTCCTGCCCCTGTACAGGTGGGCACAGCCCTGCCCCCATCCCCACCCTGCCCTCCACAGGTCCTCACCGGTCCCCTCCCCCAGGCAGGTCCTGGTGATCTTGTCCCAGCTAGAGGGCAACGCCGGCTTCTCTATCACCCACCGCCTGGCACATCGCAAGGCAGCCCAGGCCTTCCTCAGTGACTGGACAGCCTCCAAGGGGACCCACAGCCCCCCACTCACGCCAGAGGTCGCCGGTCTGCATGGGCCCCGACCGCTGTGACCACCATGCCTGGGGCAGGGGCTGTGCACAGACGGACCCCCCACCCCCACACGCACTTTATGAGGGAGACCCCGACAGAGGACGCTTGAGCCAGAATCTCAGGACCCCGCCCAGGGAGCTGCCAGCCCAGGGCTCAGCTTCCCATGGGCCCCCCGCCCCCCTCCTTCCCCTCCCTGAACCCCACAGTCCGCCTGGCCAGGCCTCCTGGCCGCCACGCAGAATACCTCGAACCAGGCGGGCTGTGAACCAGCCCCGCTCACCTGCCAGCCCCAACACCCGACGGGGGCCGAGGCCAGGCTGCCCCTCCCTGTGGGCTCAGGGTCTCCTGCGGGCTAGGCAGCCAGGAGCTCTGTCCGCAAAACCAAATCTGGGTGTCAGAGGCCAAGACCCTGGGGTGGGATCAGGGACCACCCCTCACGGGGCATAAGGTCAGTTTTCCCCCAGAGCCCGGGTCCCTGTCCCCCACAGGGCAGGCGGGGTCCCTGGAGCCCTGGTGTGGAGCGGCGAGTCCCGGGGCGGTGCCTGTCTCAGAAGAAGGGGCCCTTGGCCAGCCCCCCAGCGACACTATGCAAATCCTGGAGTGCCCGCCAGGATCGAAGCCATGACTGGGTGCAGGCGGGCGCCAGGCCCGCTGTGGGTGGGCACCAGTTCTCAGCACCGCTCACTGCTGCCGGGCACACTGGGACCAGCAGGCTCCTCAGCCAACCCTGTCCCTCGGCCCGGCCCTGCCAGAGAGGGACCCCAGCACATCGTGGGCACGGGCAGGGCTCAGCCGCTCCCACCTCCCCACAGAAGCCCAGGAGTGTGTGGACGTCTGAGCCCAGCTTTCTGCGTGCCCTCCTGGCCCCTCACTCCCGGCAGCGGGCCGGCCTCGCCCCCACTCCCCCTCCTACCCCGGCAGGGGCTTCCGGGGCCTTTTCACCTGGAGAAACATTCCCACTCCCCTTTGGCCTCCCTGTACTCTGAGCTGTGAATATTTTTAACCCTGTAAATACGGCCAGCTCTTGTGACACAGAGACTATTTTATCAATTGTCAGTCCCGTTCCTTTACCATAGGATTCTCCACAGTGGCTTCCGACTCAGGCTCCAATGGACCAAATAAAAGCGTTTTGTTTTGTAATCACGCCTCCTCCTCCTGCTGTTGCCCCGCGCAGGGCCCTGTGGAAGGGCGGGGAGGTTGCAGGTCTGAGGGGTAGGCCCTGCCCAGGCATCCCGGGCAGGCGGACGGGTGGGGGCCCCTGGAGATGGCCGTGGTGGGGTGACTCACAAGCTTGTAAGGGGCAGCCGGCCCTGCCAAATGGACGCAGCCAGGAAGGACGGAGTGACTGGGCGGGGGCAGGGGTCAGACCCTGCGGCCGCAGCCCCAGGGCCGGGAAGGACTGGGCAGACGGGACAGCAGCGCATGCAGCTTCTTCCAGCGAGGCATCCGCACGGGGGGCTCTGTCTGAACCCATCAGTCACCCGGCAGGAGCAGATGGAGTGAGGGGGCGCGTGGGGAGAAAAGTTTCCTGTCCCCTCCCAGCCTCGTCCCAGGGTGGCCTCTGCCCCCACACGGGTGCTGCTGAGCAAAGCGCCCGCTCGGAGGCTCTGCTGTCTCCCTGGACGGAGTTGGGGGCTGGGGTGCGGCCGGCGCGGGGTAAGAGGCTGTCACGGGCAGCGTATCGAATGTGAAAGCAATTAAAGCCACCAGCAGTGTTCGCTCCGGGCGGGCCTCGGGCGGCGGGGAGCTGCCAGAACACATCTCACCTCGGTGCCCGCGGACGCCGGCCCTGCTGCTCCGCGACTGCGCCACGTCACACTCCTCCTGTGGGTGGGGGCCGGGCTCGTGCCCGCTCCTGTTTGGCACAGAGCTGGCTCTGTCTAGTCCTGGGGTATCTGGGACCCCCGTTCCTCCCGAGACCCTGCTCCTCTGTCCCTGGCCCCACCCCCACCACCACCCACCTCTCTGGCTTCTGCCACCCCAGTCCTGGGGTGGCCCAGGACAGAGGCCCACAAGAAGGACCCTCCTTCTTGCAGGAGTCCCGCACAGCAGGCAAGGGGTCCGTGCCCACCCCCTCAGCTGCCCAGAGTCCCCACTAGCCCAGCCAGCAGCCTCCTCTCCACTTGAAAGCCCCCGGGAGCAGCTCCCACAGGGAGGTGATGAGGGAAAGGGGGGGCGTCTGCAGAGGACTCAGGGTCCCACAGCACAGACCCTGCCAGGTGTTGGGCCGGGGCCACGTGAGGGGCTGCTGCGGAGGCCTGGAGGAGGCGGCTGGCAGCAGGTAAGGGGAAAAGATGCGAGCGTCCTGCAGGCAGCAGGGAGGATTGGCTGGGCAGGACACACAGCCCTGGCGCGGGGCAGACCTTGGTGGCAGCTGTCGGGGCTGACTCCTTCCCACTGTCACTGCCCGGCCCCCGCCCAGCCCTCCCCTCCCTTCTCTGTGCAGGCCTCTCCCCTCCCCCGCATCTCCTCCTGGGTCTCACCCCCACCAACAGCACCATCTCTCTGGTGTATCTGGTCTGTCCCAGCCCTGTGCCCCCACGGTGCCCTCTCCTGGCCCCTCTTGTTGGCGCTGCTGGCCACAGCCTTCCCGGGGTGGGCAGTGGCAAGTTCTCACTTATGAGGCATCGCTGTCAGAAGCATTTAGTGTACAAATTAGCCGTGGCCTCCTCGCCTCCTTCCACAGCTCTGGGCTCCAGGCTGACTGGGCCGCGGCTCCAGGCCCTCTCCCGCCTGCCCGGGGCGCACTGCTGCCCAGTGTGGACCCCTGGCTGCCTGCCCATGTCCTGGCAGGAGTGCCCGCTCCCCACTGGCCGGCCAGGGCTCCTCTAGGACCCCGACCTAGACCTGGGCAGGGGTGGCCATGGCAGGCCGGGGGTGCTCAGTGAGGTTTTGGGGGGTGGGAGGCCAAGGCCCAGGACCCGGATCTACCCCAACAGTGGCCAGCCCTGGTGCTGAGGGCTATGGGGGGGCTGGACATGGGGCCCCACCACCCCACCTGCCAGTTGGAGGCCCCGCCACCCCGCCCGCCAGCCCGCCTGCCACTCAGGCGGGGAAAATCATCTGTGACAGGCCCAGGAAGGCCAGCCCCGGGGGCCGCAGAGAGACACACACAGCTCCTCTTCCCAACATATGGCTGCTGTCGGCCCCGGGCGCTGCTGGCCAGTGCCAGGCTCGGGAGCCGGTGGGGGCTCGAGCAGCCTCAGCCTCCCGTCCCACCCGCCTGGCTGGCTGCCCCCTCTGTCAGTCTACATCCCAGCCTCCTGGGACGGGGCTCACTCCCACCACAGCAGCTCAGCCCTCCAAGGAGCGTCCTGTACCCTCCTCCGTCCCAGAGGCTCAGGACACACAGAGGGTCAGCCCCGCACCCGGCCCAGGGTGGCCAGTGACCCGGCACGTCTATGAGAGTGTAGTGCATGGGGAAGGGCCCAGCTGGGGTCTTCCAGAGCCGGGAGGCGGGTGGGGAGGGGACTCTCTGGTGTGGACTCTGGGATGGTCAGGGCTGCTGGGGAGGACTATCCCTGGTAGTGCTCGAGCCGGAAGACTCCTGGAGCCCCCATTCAGGCGCCTCCTAACAGGGCCCCCGTTCCCTCAGGTGGATGGACCCAGGGACCCCAGAGCTCCGCAGGCTCTTCGTGTGCCCCCCACACCCTTGGGCCGTTGTCCTGGGCGCTCTGGCCCACTCGGTTGCCCAGCCCCCTCCGTTCTCCCCTGGCACCCCCACTGTGTACCCGCCCATCAAGGCCAGCAGCCTCAGGCTGGTGCCGAGGGCCCTCACGTGTATCCATGACCCCTTCCGCCAAGGCTGGGCTGCCCCTCTCAACCAGGGATCCTCAAGTGGGCAGCAAGGAGGAAGCCCCCAGGAGGCCTATGCTCTGTAGACCTGGGGTTCTTGAAGTGCTCAGGGTGGCCACAGGCCCTGGGGTCCGTTATTGAAAGGACAGACATCAGCTGTGTCCGGACACCTTGCAAGGTACTGACCCCACGTGGGGGCTCCAACCTGCTGCCGCTGGATAGATTGCCCCGGTCTCAGGACCTGCGTGGGGCCTCCAGCCTGGCTGCAGCCCTGACACTGCCCTCACTGTGTGGGTGCAGGCACCCCGGCCCCTGCACCTGTCCTGACACTGGCTGTGTGTCGACACTGAGGGGATGAGACAGGCCTGCCCCCGGGCACTGGCCATGCCGAGCGCTGCCTCCGCTGCCTTCTCTGAGCCCAGCTCTCCGTCCTGCCCGTGAGCCCCCGGCACAGAGTCCCATTGTTAATGGAGGTGACAGGCGGGCAGCCGTGGGCAGACCGGGCAGAAGAGGTTAATGGCCAAAAATGAGCTTCTGGCTGGAGGCAGAAGGAGGGGCCATGGGGTCCCCATCCCACCCTGCACTGGGACTGGCTAAGGAGACATCAGGGCACCCACTAGGACCAGAGCAGAAGTGCCCGGACACTGAGCACCCCACTGCCCATTCTGCAGATGGGGGCCATGGGCCAGAAAGTTGGGGGGGTGGGGGCACAGGTGCCAAAACAGAGTCCCAGTCACTGCCTCAGGAAGCAGAAGCCACCTCTCCAAACCCAAAGTCAGCCCAGTGTGCAAGAGCTGGGACCAAGCAGGTGGGTCATGGCCACAGTGAGGAAGCTGACGTGCCCAGGGGGCCCTGTGGTTGCGGGGTGCTGGCACTGATATCCCGGCCTCGCCTGGCTGTTTGTGATGGGAACAGTCATCTGGGCACCCAGTGTACTGGCCTCACATGCTCCTCACCCCCCACCTCGTGCACGGCTGAATCTCAGGACCCCCACCAGCAGGTGCAGGGCCCCCTCATCCTCCCTGCCAGAGTCCTTCCGGGAGGCCAGAAACACGTCCAAGTTGTGCCCCGGGGCCCCTCTCGAGGCTGCCCCTCTTCTCTTCTCATGCAAACTTCTGCAAAGGCCCATCGGTGGTGAGGGGTGGAGGTGCTCCTTCAGCCTGCTCAGCGCTAGACACGGCCTTGTTCCCCCTCTGGGGCTCCTTGGTCCCCTGAGCTTCACTGGGCTTTATTTCCTGTATGCTGACATCTAGGTGCTCCAAGACCAGGCCTCCCTGCTCCCTACTTTCCTCCCCTGGACAATGGCCAGAGCCTCCAGCCAGTTGGTCTCCTGTGCTGTCAGCTGTGGCCTCTTCCAGACCTTCAAAGGGGTCAGTCTCGGGCTGGCCACTGAGGGACTACTGGTGTCAGGGTGACCTTGGACCCTAGTCTCCCGGGGCAGTGCTCAGCTGAACACGTCCAGAGTAGAGTCTATGTACAGAAGCAGCCGGCCTCCTGGCCCCCGCTCTCCACGGGGCTGCTGGCGTGACGGCAGCCCAAGCTGTCTCCCGGCCCGGAGCTGCCTGCACGGTCAGCTGGTCAGCTGGGCCAGGCCAGGTGGGCAGAGAGAAGGCTGGCATGCTCTGCCATCCACAGCACCCCTCCCAGTCCCCTGCCCCGCCCCAGGGACTTCCCTCAGACGGGCGTGTGCGGCTGTGTCAGGGAAGGTGGCATGGAGGCAGGAGGGAGACAGAGCCCCACGCCCACCCCAGAACCAGGGGCTGTTCCTCATGGACCCTGGGTGTGCTCTACCAGGGGGCTCTGCCAGCAGCCGGACCGGGGCCACGGAGATGCTGCTGAGCTCTCTTCTCTGCCCCATTCGAGGGGTGACACCCAGAAGCCCCGTGGGGTCCTCCCTTCTTCCCCAAGGCACCCCTGACCCCGACCTGAGCTGGGGACAGCCCGGGAGCCTGCGGCTGAGCCTGCAGAGAGCCCCAGGTCCTGGGGAGCTATGTGGGCCGGGCTCCCTGTGCTGTTTCAGAGTCAGCAGGGAGTAGCACACTCCCCTCTGGCTGGAGACCCCGAGACGCCCGCCTACCGCAAGTGTCGGGTTTAGGACGTCTCCCCTGAGCGAAGTCAGGGGCTCTGCCCCAGCCATGCCTGTGTCCGGGAGGGAGCAGGCCGGTCAGGCGAACCTCCCCTAGGCCCCAGCTGAGCAGTGGGGCTCCAGGCCTTTACGTTCTGGCAGCTCAGGGAGCTGCTTGGAACTTGGTGCAGCCCGGGAGGTGGGGCTGGGAGCAGCCCTGGCCCTGCTTCTCTCCTCCACCGCCCCAGGTCCTCTCAGGAGGGGACTCCCGTGGGGAGGGGGTCTTTCAAACAGCAGGGAAGTGCGTGGCCTCGTGGGGCAGCGCTGAGGCACCTCCCACAGGAGCCGGGAGTGAGGGCTGGAGGGGTCCGCATCCAGGAAGGGGGAGGGTGCTGGAGACCAGCCCCAGGTGGAGGCGGTCAGCCGGCAGGGCGGGGTGCGAGGGGCCGGTCCGGGCAGCCTCCGGTTTAGAGGAAAAGAGAACGGAGGGCAGGGCTCGCCCAGGGAGGGCAAGGAAGGGAGCCCGGCTCCGCTGGCTCAGTCCGCGGCACCCCTGTCCCCCAGGACAGCCCCCAGGGGCCCTGGCTCGGGTGGGCCGGCGGCTGTCAGGGGCCAGAGCCCTGATGGATAAGCGCTGACGGCCCCTCTCCCGCGCCCCGCGCCGCTGACACCCATCACGCCGCGGCGGGGACCCGGGAGACCTGGCGGCCTCTGTGCACCCCCGCGGCAGCCTGCGGGCAACGGGGGCGGGAGGCGCCGGGCGCCCCTGACTCGGCCGCACACCTGCGCCGCAGTCCGCTCTCCGTCCGCTGCCTCCCGGGTTCCCGGCCGCTCCACCGCGCGCCCCGAGAGCTGAGCCGGTCCCGGCGCACGAGGCCGGTGAGTGCGCGCCAgggggcggcggggggcgcgcgggcggcgggggcgcggggttcgggccgggggcTGCTCCTTCCCTCCCGCCGCGAGCGCGGTCGGAGGTCGCAGCGCCCCCCGGAGCCCGGAGCCCAGGCGCACGCGCGCCCGCCTCTGCCGCCAACTTCGGGAGGTGCGAGCGGCGTCGGGGGGACGCGGGCGGCGGCGGAGGCTGCGGGAGTCGCTGCCGCTCGAGGGACCGCGGACCCGGGAGGTCCGGCTCCCGGCGCCGGGCCTCAGTTTCCCCCACGGGAGCCGCATCCCACCCCCAGAGCCCCAGCGCGTCCGCGGGGTCCGAGTcgcggccggcgcggggcggggaggggcgggAAGTTTGCGCCCTACACGCGGCCTCGCAGACTTGGCGGCTCCGCTCCCGGCCGGGCGCAGGTAGGAGCGGCGGGAGCCGCGGGGGCGGCCAGTTGGGCGTcgcggggccggctggacgcggggcgcgggggcagcgggtggccaggcgtgtggggggcgcggggggcggccgggtcccccccACCCTCTTCTCGAAGTCCAGGAGCAGCGCGGGGGGAGGGAGGGCCGCCCTCAGGGGCCAGGCGGGGAGGGCAGGGGCCGGGTCTGGGGTCTGGGGCAGACGCCTGACCTCGCGCTCGCCGCACCCGCCTGTGTGGGGCGCCCTGCGTTCCCGGGGGGGGGGGCAGCAGGATCTGCGGGTGGCCGATCAGGGTCCCCGGCTGCTGGGTGCCCCCTCCTGCCCTGTGGGGGTGCCTGTGCCCCCCGTGCCACCGGTTCTCCCCCAGCTCTCCCCCAAACAGGGACAGGTGAGTGGGGCCGGGTGTCGGGGCCTGGCACAGGGCTGCTGGCTGCCCCGGGAGCGATTGCCGGGTCCGGCTGGGACGCGCGTGTGAGTGCGTATGCGTTTGTGTGTGCGTGTGGCTGCTGTCCAGGGGTGTCTTTTGCTCTGTGTACACACACCAGGTGGGTGCCAGCTATCCTCCGGGTCCCCAAGGGGTCAGCAGCTGCTGAGACAGCCCCTTGGACAAGCCCCTGACCCGGGAGCCCCCGGTCCCTGCTGGGAGGCGGGATGGGTTGTGGCATCGGCTGGCACAGCTGTGTGGCTCCCAGGGCTGGGTGATCGATGGCCCGGCACAGCCGCCTCTGTCGCCGGAGCGCCCACACCCATTTGTCATCCACATGGGTGGGGGGGGCGGCGGGCAGGGAGAAGGGGCCGCCTCTGCACCCACCACCCAGTCCAGGCCGGGTCTGCAGCCCCTCGGGGAGCCCCAGGACCTCTCCTGGCCCAGCCCCTGCCTCCCGACCGCCACCCTGTCTCAGCCACAGACCAGCTGGTCAGCCTCTGCCTGCCCCTGCAGCCCGTGACTGCCCTGCAGGGCCCCAAGCCTTTGGACGAGTGGACTTCTCCAGCCCTGTTGGTCGTCCCCCCAACGGCACCAACACAGTGTTTTGGGGGCAGCAGACAGCAGTGCCCCAGCCCTACCCTGCTCAACCCACTGGCCATGCATGACCACGGGTGCGACCCCCAGCCAGGTCTGCGTGTGTCCTGGGGAGTCGGTGTGTAGGGCCTGTGTGAGCATGTGAGTGCCGTGTTGGAGTGGTTTGGAAAGCCCCCCCACACCTGGATGGGTGGTGAGTGTGTTATCACGGACAAGCAGCCGTGTTCACCGTGATGGAGTGTGAGGTGTGTGCAGCCAGGGCCCCGCACTTGGTGGCAGACTCCGTTCTGAGCTTAGGTGGCACAGAGGTGGCTTCTCCGGGCACTGGGTGAGGGCTCTGTGTGAGCCTGTGGGCTGTGTACACACACCCAAAGCCCGTGTGCGCAGGCGTGCTGTGCACCCCACACAGGCGCGTGCTGGGGCGGTGGACAGCCCAGGTGGCGGCCCAGATGGAGTGTGGCGCGCATACCAGCGCCGTGTGGGGCGTGGGGAGGAGCGGGTCTTGGCTGAGTGTGGCCGCTGCAGGCTCGGCCGCTGACCTGCCCGAAGCCACCCAGATGGAGCTGGGCTGAGCAGGTGGCTGAGCCGTGGGGCCATGCTGGGACGTCCACTCCCCACAGCCTGGCCTGGCCCCACATGAGACTGACCCCCTAAGAGACCCCCAGTGCCCACCTGACGCCCTGCTAGAGCAGGCTCTGTGCCGCCTTTAGacacacacgcatacacacgcactcacacatgcatgcatgcacacatgcacacacaatgcacacacgtgcacatgaacacaagcatgcacagaggcacatgcacacacaggcgcacacacgtgtgcacacacacgcacatgcacgcacacacacgtgcatgcacacgcacacatgcacacacacagacacacacaggcacacacacacacacgcaGCATCATCCCACACAGACCCTTCCGTTGGTGTCTCATCTCAGTGCCTTTTCCTAGGCTTTGAACAGGCAGATTGGCAGGGGCCAGGGTTGCTGGAGGGAATGAGACCAGGAGGCTGACGTCCACCCGAAGTGAGCTCTGGTCACGCTGATTCTTTTAGCCACTCACATGCTGTGGGGAGATGGGTGTGGGCTGAACTATCCTAGAAATTGGCCAGCAAGTCGGCCTGGCCTCAGGGGTGGGGATGTGTGtagggtcaaccgataaaataaaggacgcctagttaaaatcgaatttccgataaacaatgaacacctttctagtgtgcctttccaatattgcctaggctacacttaacactcagaaatgacgtgctgctgatcggcgtcagatgcagctcgctgtcctggacttttttttTTTTTTTTGGTGCCCTGGACTTTGCTGCCACCCTGGAAGTGCACGTGGGGAGGAGCCGAAGGATGGGGCTCGGGGGGCACGTTGCAGGGCAGAGGCGGCGGGGTGGGGGGAGCACCCAGGCTCCAGTCCCTGGAGCCTGGGGAGCCATGGATGGAGAGGAGTGGGGAGTTAGTCAGAGGCAGGCTTGGCACTGACTGTGGCCCCATCTACAGGTGGCCATGGTGCCCGGCCCTGCCTCATAGCAGGCTGCCATGTCGCGGGAGGCGGGCTCATGCCGCGTGGGCACAGGGGCGAGGGCGCGGTCTCGGAAGCCCAAGAAGCCACACTACATCCCGCGGCCCTGGGGCAAACCCTACAACTACAAATGCTTCCAGTGCCCCTTCACCTGCCTGGAGAAGTCACACCTCTACAACCACATGAAGTACAGCCTCTGCAAGGACTCCCTGTCCCTGCTGCTAGACTCCCCAGACTGGGCGTGCCGCCGTGGCTCCACCACGCCTAGGCCCCACGCACCCACCCCAGACCGCCCTGGGGAGTCCGACCCCGGCAGGCAACCCCAGGGAGCACGGCCCACAGGTGCTGCCCCCGCGCCTGACCTCGTGGTCGCCGACATCCACTCCCTGCACTGTGGCGGAGGCCCCAAGTCCAGGGCCAAGGGGTCCCCAGGGCCACCACCCCCTGTGGCTAGGGCCACCCGGAAGGGTCCCGGCCCCAGTGGGCTCCTGCCTGAGTCGTGGAAGCCGGGGATGGGAGGGGACCCAAGGGGCGTGGGTGCGGGGGACATGGCCTCAGCAGGCCCTGAGGGCAGCGTCCCCTGCTATCCCCCGCCTGCCCCAGGGGAGTTCCCTGAGGCCCACAGCCTCCACCTGTCTCTGCTGGGCGTCAACTACCCGCTCAGCCCCGGCCTCTTCTCCTACTTGGGGCCCTCACTGGCCGCTGCAGCCCATGTGCCCTTCCTGGCCTCGGCCAGCCCCCTGCTGCCCCCGGCCACGGCCTTCCCAGCCGTGCAGCCCCCTCAGCGCCCCACCCCGGCCCCCCGCCTGTACTACCCGCTGCTTCTGGAGCACACTCTGGGGCTGCCAGCAGGCAAAGCTGCCCTTGCCAAGGCCCCTGTCTCCCCCAGGAGCCCCTCTGGGACTCCGGCTCCTGGCCTGCTGAAGGTGCCAGTTCCAGGGCTGGGGCCCTGGCCCCGAGTCACCCCCAGGGACCCAGGGCAGGAGGGGGAGCTGGAGCGGGCAGCCCAGAGTGACCCCAGGAGGAGGCTGTCCCTGGGAAGCAGGCTGGAGCTTCCGAAGGCATCCCCCAGCCTGACAAGGTTCTGTTCCCGGAGCAGGTGGGCGTCTTGGGCTCCCGGTTCCTGGGGTGGACGGAGGGGCTGGGCGGCTGGGCATGGCGGTTGGGCGGCTGGGCATGGCGGCTGGGGTCCGTCCTGAGCTCAGTCGCTGGGAAAGTGGGCTCCAGGCCACAGAGGGGAACTGAGACCCGAGAGCCAGCGCGGGGGTCCTCGGGGTCTCCAGGAGAGCCTAGGCTCTAGGCTGGGGCCACAGGGCAGAGGCCGTGAGGGGAGAGGGGCAGGGGCCGGGGGCGCTGTGGGGGCAGTGCGGCCTCCTGACCAGCTTCCACCCCACAGCCTGCCCACCGGCTCCTCTGTGATGCTGTGGCCTGAGGACGGGGATCCAGGCGGCCCTGAGACCCCCGGCCCTGAGGGCCCCCTCCCCCTGCAGCCACGGGGCCCAGTGCCAGGAAGCCCGGAGCATGTGGGCGAGGACCTGACCCGAGCCCTCGGTGACTACGCCAGGGTGGAGCAGCGCCTGGGACAGTTGGGGCCCGCGGGGGGCCTGGCCCCGAGACCCCTGCGGGAGCAGCTGGGCAAGATCCGCCTGGAGCTGCTCACCATTCACCAGGCGCTGGAGCAGGCCGTGAGGCCGCCAGACGCACCCCTCGACCTCTCTGTGAAACGTGCGCCCGCCAAGGGGCCCCAGGCTCTTGGAGAGGCGTGGGGGCGGCCCGAGCTGGGTCCCGTGTTGACCGGGGGCACCCCCGAGCCACCCGGCATGCTGGGCCCTGCAGCGCCCCAACCCTTCTCTGGCCACACCACCAAGTGTGAGGCCGACTCCAGCGTCCCACCCCCAGGGCTCCCCCTCGCAGCCCCAGATGACCCTGTCATTCCTGGCAGTGGCTGGGGCACCTGTGTTGCGACGAGGAGTTCCCAGACCCCTGAGGCTGTCTGTGGCCTGCAGAGCCCCCAGGGCGCCGAGGTCTGACCTGCAGCGCCTGAGGTCTGACTGTCTCTGCCTGCAGCATGCCGGCCCCTCTCCTGCAGCCCCTGCCCCTCACCTGCCTGGGACCTGCCCCGCCTCCGCATGCATGTGGATAGACCCCCACGGGCCGTGGCCAACGCTTGTCCCTGGGGCCACACAGGGACACTGGAGGTCACAGTTATTTATTGATCACAATTGTGGACATTAAAACAGAAACTGTTCACACACGCCGTCTGTGCCTCCTTCCTTTGGGGCCCTAGTGTAGCCACCTGGACACCCCCCTAAGGAAGTGTCCTGGCCTGGGAGGCCTGGGTGGGCAGCAGTCCTGCTGGGCCTCTGTCTTCAGACTCGGCCCTCTCCTGTGGGCTGGGCCCTCCCCGCGGGGCTGGGGTCTGGGGGTGGGGCGGGACATCGGCGACGGGAGCTGAGCCAGGAGAGCCGTGTGGACTGGGCTGCTCGGCCTGTGTCTTGGTGTGTCGGGGGTGGAGAGGCGTGTGGACTGGGCTGCTCGGCCTGTGTCTTGGTGTGTCGGGGGTGGGCACGGACCCCTGAACATCCTCTAGCCTCTGAATCCAGCAAGGCCGCGCTCATATCAGCTCTCCTGCGGTTAAACGGTGGCCCCGGGGCTCTGTGGCTGGAGGCTGCTCACCCAGCGTGGGCTCTGCTGGCCCCTGCCAGCCCCTGCAGCCGTGATAGGTATCAGCCTTCACAGCTCACTGCCTCCCTCCCAGCAGGGCCTGGCTTGGCCCTCCCACGGGCAGGGGATGGGCAGACAGGGAGGGGCACCCGGGACCCCCACAGCAAATCACTTCTCTCCTGGGAGAGCTGGCCACACCCTCCACGCCCACCCTGGAATGGGCTCTGGAGCCCACATCGCCCCCCCAGGAGGAGAAGCAGTTCCTGCCTGCGTCCAGCCGGGCTGGGGCCAGTCCAAGCAGGCTGGCAGCGGCCCCATTAACTACCAGGGAGATAGCATCAGCCCCGACCCTGCCTCGGGGCAGCTAGAGCTGGGGTGCTGCCTGGCCAGGCGCGGAGTGCTGTGGGGACAGGTCCCAGCCGGGCCCCTCTACCCAGAGGCTTCCTGGAGGGGCTGCAGGGGGCTCTGGGCAGCCAGGAACTGTTCCCAAGTCCCGAGTCTGAGGGAGACTCCCTGTCCTCAGCCCCCGCCCCCCATATGTCCACTGCACCCCATATGTCCACTGCACCTCAGTTTCTCACCCCCACTGAGCAGACAGGTGAGCATGGCCTTGCTGGGGGCAACAGCACCCGTCTCCCAGGTGTGGAGACACGACCTCCTTCGCTGTCACCCGTGGGGAGCAGGACAGGCCTCATGGAGGGTGCCTCAGCCAGCAGGTCACCCGCCTGTGGTCCAGACCCAAGGACCCTGCTTGGGGGTGGCAGCCTGGGGCTGCCTTGCCACTTGGAGTAATGAACTTGCTGGTTGTGGGGGGACCATGGGGGACCCCTGGAGGGGGGTGGGCTGCATGGCATCTGGCCGTGTAGGGGACGTGGGAATAGTGTCCGGGCAGAGGGCGCAGCCTGCAACAAGGCGCGGAGGCAGGAACACCACAGCATGGGGAGTCCTCAGGGGACCTGGTTTTTCTTTCATAGAAGCTTCAGGGGCCAAGGCCGGAGACTGCACTCTCCCTCCTCCACCCGGCCCAGCTGCGTCCCTGCCAGTGGCTCCTCCCACTTCCTCCAGTTCTAGTTTCCAACAACAGAGGCTGCAGCCACCCAGCCCCGAAGCAGGGCCCAGCGAGACAGGGCCCAGGTAAGAGACCCCTCCCCCCGGCCTCTCTCGGTGGGGCAGGTGGAGGCCCTCGGAATAGGCTGCCTCGCCCCTAAGGGGTCAGAAGTCTCCCTGACCTAGGGGCTCGGGTAGAAGGGCTGTGTGTGGGTGACCGCCCCCCCGCCGTAGAAAGGGGTTCCACAGGCAGATGGATTTGAGAAATGTTGCTTATCTGTCTGAGGCCCATGAGCTCATCTGGGGCTCAGGGGAAAACCCACAGCGAGCTCCACGGGTCATGTGTCTCCCAGACTCAAGTCCCAGGCACCTAGACACTAGGGTGGCCGCTGGGCTTGGTGGCCAGGTAGACCCTCAGGACCAGGAGGACCCGGCCTCATAGGAAGAAACTGGAGGAGTGACTTTGCCATTCCCACACACAGTGGGGCCTTATTCTCTCTCTTGCAGCCCCAAGCGTGACCCAGCTGCAGAGAAGCTGAGACGGTGATTCGGACTGACTGGACTCTGGCCTCCAGGTGTCTGCACCTCACACTGGACCCACCTGGAGACTCCACGGGCTCCCGGCAGCTCCGGCTGCTTGGGTGGATCCGGGTGCCCGCAGGGGCTGTGGGAGGGCCCCGGGGCCTGCACTGCTCCCCCGATGGCCTGCTCTTCCTCACGGCCGGGGCTGCACCCTGTGTCCACGTGCTAGATCTGGAGGGACGCCCCATCTGCCTCCTGCCCTGCCGCACTCCGGGGAGCGGGGCCTTCGTTCCAGAGGACGTGGCTGTGACAGCGTCAGGGCTTGTGGTGGTCAGCGATCCCATCCATGGGGCTGTCCATGCACTCCAGCACACAGCCCGGGACCCCGGGGGCCACTGGGTGACAGTGGGCACCTTCCTGTCTCCCCGAGGGCTGGCTGTGGATGCCCTCAACCGCCTCCTGGTGACGGACTACTTGCCTGGGGCTGTGCACAGCTTCTCGTTGGGTCCTGCTTGGGAGCCCCTGGCCCCAGCCTCCATGCTGGGTCTGGAGGGCCCCTGCTGGGTGGGCCCAGGGCCTGATGGGGGCCTTGCTGTGAGTGAGGAGTTTGGGGATGTGAGGCTGTTTGGCAGTGCCCGCCAACCCCTGGGCTCCCTGGGGGGCTGGACGGGGCACACTTTCGGCTGCCCAGCGGGCATCTGCTCCAACTCAGAGGGCAATGTTATTGTGGCAGACGAGCAGAGGCGCCAGGTGACCCTGTTTCCCCGGGCTGGGCCACCCATCTGCCTGGTGTCAGAGGGGCTTGGGCAGCCCTTGGGAGTGGCCTGTGCACCCCAGGGCCAGCTCCTGGTGGCTGATGCCAAGGACAACTCCATCAAGGTGTACCAGGGCCTCAAGGAGCTGGCCTGACCTGAGGCTGGGTTGGAGCAGCCCTCCTGTGCCTGAGGCCAGCTCCCAGGCCCTTGGATCACCGCGGGAGGAACCCTCAGGATGGGTGGAGCCTCCAGGCTATGGGCATTGCCTGCCTGATGCCAGCACCACCTGGGCTGGGCCCTGGGCTTGGCTCGAGTTCTCCTGCTGGTGAGGCTCCGGATCTCAGGAGCAGCCCTGAGTCTGCTTCCCAGGCTGCCCCTGCCAGGCCTGCAGCCTCCCCAGCCAGGGCTGCTCTCTGCTGTCCCCATTCAGTGCCCTGGCCCCTGCATTCATGCCCCCCACACCCCCTCAGGCCCTGTGCCTGGACTTTGGGGCTGGCAGCTGAAGCCTTGAGATCCTGGGCCAGCTGCCGGCACACAGCTAGGCAGACTCTCCCACCAGGTGCCCCTGCCCAGGCCTCCTAATCGGGGGCAGACAggcagggagggtgtggctgggctgggctgggcggggcggcctggggcagggGTGTGGCCCCTAAATGTCCCCAACCTCAGAGGGACCTAGAGTCCTGAGCCTCCAGTAGCTTCTCTGGGCCTGGCAGAGGTAAGGGGGAGGCAACCCTGGAGTGTCTGGAGGCCCATGGCTGGCTGAACCCTGGATGCCTTTTCTTCCGCGTCCCCATGAATGAAAGCTGTCTGGGCCTTCATTCTGCAGACAGGGACAAACAGCTCCATGCTGTTTGTCCTCCCAGTGCAGCCGTGCTGGGAGGGTCTGGGGGAGCTTCCTACAAGGAGAGACTCCTGCTGCTTTGGAAAACTGAGAAAAAATAGGGGtctaaccctctcctcccattttacaagtggggaaatgaggcgtgaaaggagaggcgtctGGGTTACTCCGTGGGTCTGGGGTCCAGGGAAGGGCCTGTATGGGGGAGGGAGCTGGGAGGGGACGGTGTCTGGCTCTACCCCTGTGGGGTGGGGAGGTGGGGCTCCCCTGTATCACAGGACATCCCCCCTGAGAGGTCCCTCATATGTCTGGGTCCTGTGGGTGGGGGACTAACTGCGCAATGTAGTTAGGTGCTCAATAAACGGAGTTGCCGCTGAGGTCTGGGCTGGGGTCTTGTTCCTGGGATCGGGAGGGGCTGGACGCCTGTGTGTTCTCTCCTGACGATCGCTGGCGGCAGCCTCTGGGCTGGTCCTACCAGGGCTCAAAATTCCCGGCACCACTGGCCTTGGGGATCTGGGGGCGGCCCCTCTGCAGACAACAGAGTGACGGGGGCGGGACCGGGCTGGGGCTGGGGCCTTCCTGGAATCCCGCAGGGCCTGGGGACCTGTTCACTTGGGGAGGCTGGGAGCCAGGCGGGGTCCGGGTTCCACGAAGGCCAGGTCCAGTCAGTTTCTCAGGTGAGGAAACCGAGCTGACGCGGGGCTGGCGGCCCGGAGGCAGGCTCGGGAGGTCCGGGCCTGGGGACTGGGCGGGCACGCTGCGCCGCGGAACGCTCGGGTcgggcgggcgggcgggcagcccgggcgccTTTGGGGGCCGGACCGTCGCGCGGCAACGCGCGGAGCCGGCGGAAGTGGGGCTCGGGTCCCGCGGCGGGGCTGGAGGCAGCGAGCGCCGTCGTCTGCCCGGGCCCGCCCATCGGGGTCCCCAACCCCATCCGGACCCCGCCGCCCGAGCGCGCGGCCCCGGAAGCACCCGGTGAGCAGGGGGGGTGGGCGGCGCGCGGCGGGACCTCGGGCAGCGCCCCTGCGGCTCCGGGCCTGGGCTGGGGGCTCCGCACTCCCGCCCGCGGCGCCGCTGCTTTCTCCTCCCAGAAGTggggccgcccccgggcccgcgccgACCTGGGCCCCTGTGGACCCTGTGCAAGGGCGGTCGGCGGCCCGGGCCTGGCTGTGGGCCCTTCGCAGTTGTCCCGGTTTGCAGGAAAGGGCAAAAAACGGAATCGTAGGCTCTTCCCAAATGAGAGGGGAAGGCCCTGCTTGAGGAAGGCAAGCAAgtttgtttgtttgtttgtttTgagacggggtctcaccatgttgcccaggctgaactcgTGtttgtttttcattatttatttattttgagagggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcgcgatctcgggtcactgcaaccgctgcctcccgggttccagcgattctcctgcctcagcctccccagtagctgggattacaggtgcccaccaccacgcccggctaatttctgtatttttagtagagacttggtttcacccccatcgaggctggtcttaagctcctgacctcaagtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgccaggTTGGTGTTTATTTTTCAAACAAGGCGCTGGGAAACGCAAATTCTCCAGAGCTCTTGTGGAGCGGTGGCAGGGAGGGGCGGCTCAGCCAGAGATGGCCCTGGCCCGTCCTAACTGGGCTGGGGTGCCCCCATTCCCTCATTCACGGGGAGGAGAGGGAAGTCTTAGTCTTACTACTTTATATGGTCGACCTCCCTACCTGCCTGGTCTGGGAATGGCTTCTCAAGAGCACTCGGGCTCATTCTTAGCAGAGGAAGCTCTTCTGGCTAGCCTGGCGCCCgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtctggctagcctggtgcccgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtCTGGCTAGCCTGGCACCCGTGGCTAGCCTGGCGCCCgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtctggctagcctgtgtgtgtctggttagcctgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtctggctagcctgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgGCTAGCCTGGCGCCCGTGTGTGTGTGTGTGTCTGGCTAGCCTGGCAACCATGGCTAGCCTGGTGCCCGTGTGTGTGTGTGTGTCTGGCTAGCCTGGGACCCGTGGCTAGCCTGGTGCCCGTGTGTGTGTGTCTGGCTAGCCTGTGTGTGTCTGGTTAGCCtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtttgtgtctggctagcctgtgtgtgtctggttagcctgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtctggctagcctggcgcctgtgtgtgtgtgtgtctggctagcctggtgcccgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgGCTAGCCTGGCGCCCgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtTTCCTCAGTCTTTAAAGATGCTCACGTTGCTTTCTCCCGTCCCATACCTCCTCTGCTATCGATCGCTTCTCTTTCATCTTCCTCTGGCTGTGTGATCCCAGCAGCTGCTAGTGCAGGCTTCTTTGTGCCGCCGACCGTCCCAGAGGCTGAGGTGGGAGTGTGATGGGCGTTTGCCCCACAGTACGTTGAGTTTTCTCTCACTACTCGACAGAGAAGAGTAGCTTCTGCCCTCCCATCTCCTTCGGTAGACACAAGGCACTTTTTTTTTTTAAGGTAAACTTTGTAGATGAAGCACAAAGAATACACACAAAGAAAGCGCACAGATCGTGAGCACGTAGCTCGGTGAATTTACCCAAAGTGAGCCCACCGCAGAACCAGCTCCCCCTAGAACATCTGTTTACTGTTAGACCCATTGTGTTTCTTTTCCGACGATATCTGTGGGCAGTTTTCCTTAGTCCCTGTGAAAGCTCTTCCCCAGCAGGGCGTGATGGGTCCCTGGGCTGAGCTGGTGTGAAAGGTGGGCTGTACTGGGTGGTCCCCTATGGTGGTCACACAGCCAGACACGCTGGGCCCCTTGCAGGCAGAATCACTTTGTCCCTCTCACGATGTCCTTGGTGCCTCACGTCAGCTGGCCTCCAGGCATCCACCCGCCGCCTGCCCTCTCTGACCACTGAGGAAATGGGCATTTGAGGAGTTCTGCAGCCTGACCCAGAAGGTCCCTTTTCAGCTAGAACCCACCGCCTTGAGTGACTGGATCCTCCAGCCCCAGTGCGGGCTGCCTGCAGGGGAGGAGAGCAGCTGCACCAGGGGCCTCTTAAGCCCCAGGCATTTCCGTGTGAGGCCTCTTCCAGAGCCCCTCCAAGCTTCGGGAGAGGACTTACAGGTCACACCACCCCGACGTGTGCATCCTGCTCTGTTCCCTCGTCCCTAAGGATGTGGTGGGCTCTGAGACCTCCAGGCATCCTGGTCTGTTCCCTCATCCCTAAGGGCGTGGTGGGCTCTGAGACCTCCAGGCATCCCACTCTGTTCCCTCGTCCCTAAGGGCGTGGTGGGCACTGGGACCTCCAGGCGTCCCGCTCTGTTCCCTCGTCCCTAAGGATGTGGTGGGCACTGGGACCTCCAGGCGTCCCGCTCTGTTCCCTCGTCCCTAAGGATGTGGTGGGCACTGCGACCTCCAGGCGTCCCGCTCTGTTCCCTCGTCCCTAAGGGCGTGGTGGGCGCTGGGACCTCCAGACCCAGGCTCAGGCCAAGCTATGTCCCTCCCTCGAGTGTGGCTCCAGCGTGGGGGGTCTCTGCTCAGGGTGGCCGCTCCACTCTTCGTGCAGGCGAGATGGGGCTTTCTGTGTCTGAGGAAGGCGAGCGGCCCAGCCAGCCGGCCAGTAGTGCCCCCACCGCTAGGGAGTCCTCCTGCCCTGTGGGGCCCCGCCAGGGAAGGCATCAGTGGAGAAGGAGCCCCAGCTGGCTGCATGGCTCCGCAGGGGCCTGTGAGAAAGGGGGAGGAGAGGCCCAGGGCCTGGGAACCGCGGTAGCTCAGGTGGCTTCCTACTCAACAGCCACCTTGGAAGGCTGGTGTCCCTCAGCCTGAGAGTGCAGGATGCAGTTTCTCCACACCTCCGGGACCTGTAAGCCTCTCTCTCCCCGTTTCTAGGCACCCATGTCGTTGGAGAAATATATCCTGGAGAGAAAATGCTCCCTGAGGGAGCCCTGCCCTGGGGTGGCTGTGGGGATGTCAGGGAGGGCCAGGCACTGCCGGGTGCCACCGTGGGCGGGGGTCAGAGTGGAGGCCGAAGCCCTGTGTGCCCTGAGCAACGAGGCAGGTCCTTCCTGCCCCCAGGGAGGGGCTTGTGGGAGGCAGGGACCTTCTGGGGGGCTGCCCGCCGTGCGCACGAGGTAGTTTCCACAGCCCAGCAGCACATCATTTTACATTTTCATCTTTATTCTTGCTTAATACGTGAATCATGGTTTGTCAAGGTTTCAATTGGCGTGACCTTGCTAATGAGATTGTACAGTTCTCCTCGTGCTACACCTTTAAGCACACCTCTCTAATCAGGTTTCTTAAAACTAAGAAGCCTGGAGTTCGGTTCGGCCCCACAGCCGCGTCAGGTGGTGCCGAGGAGGCCGTGCCCTGGGCCGGCCTGGAAATGGGAGGGCAGGCCTGGTGGCTGCATGTGCGTCCTGCCTCGTGCGGGTGGGGCTGAGCTGGGCCTGGGGTGGACTTGGGGCCAGCACTCTGGCTGCCCCTTGGAGAAGCATGGCCCACGCGAGGCGGCAGCCAAGGAGCCCTACGGCGTCCACCACCGAACTTGAAGCTGAGGTGCCCCGACCTGGGGCCCTGTGGCTGCACCTGTCAGGCCGTCTGTGCAACATCCCGCAGCCCACGGTGGGGGGGCAGCAGCAGCTCTGAGCCGAGCCTCTCCTCTTCTCTTCCAGCCTCCCGGCATGGTGCTCAAGGCCTTCTTCCCCACGTGCTGCGTCTCGACGGACAGCGGGCTGCTGGTGGGACGGTGGGTGCCGGAGCAGAGCAGCGCCGTGGTCCTGGCGGTCCTGCACTTTCCCTTCATCCCCATCCAGGTCAAGCAGCTCCTGGCCCAGGTGCGGCAGGCCAGCCAGGTGGGCGTGGCCGTGCTGGGCACCTGGTGCCACTGCCGGCAGGAGCCCGAGGAGAGCCTGGGCCGCTTCCTGGAGAGCCTGGGTGCTGTCTTCCCCCATGAGCCCTGGCTGCGGCTGTGCCGGGAGAGAGGCGGCACGTTCTGGAGCTGCGAGGCCACCCACCGGCAAGCGCCCACTGCCCCCGGTGCCCCTGGTGAGGACCAGGTCATGCTCATCTTCTATGACCAGCGCCAGGTGTTGCTGTCACAGCTACACCTGCCCACCGTCCTGCCCGACCGCCAGGCTGGAGCCACCACTGCCAGCACGGGGGGCCTGGCTGCCGTCTTCGACACGGTAGCACGCAGTGAGGTGCTCTTCCGCAGTGACCGCTTTGATGAGGGCCCCGTGCGGCTGAGCCACTGGCAGTCGGAGGGCGTGGAGGCCAGCATCCTCGCGGAGCTGGCCAGGCGAGCCTCGGGACCCATTTGCCTGCTGTTGGCCAGCCTGCTGTCGCTGGTCTCAGCTGTCAGTGCCTGCCGGTAGGTGTCCCGGGACAGGCAGGTGGCAAAGAGTGGGGTCCCATGAGTGCTGGCCCATCCCTTTGTCTGCAGTGGGCACAGAGGCCCAGATGCGCTCTTCCTGGGCCCGGGCCCCCTCCCACTCCTGCAGCCCGGGCTTTGGCCCCATCCTGCTCTCCCAACCCTCGCCTCTCAGAGGGTGTCCCTCACCCCTGGGGTAGAGCCAGGTCTCTGGGCAGCCTCAGGGATTGCCAGGGGCCCTCCCAGAAGGTGTAGAGGGTGAACCTCAGTGGCTTAGGTCCCTGAAAGAGAAATCAGAAGGTGAGCACAGACATGACTACTGCTGCCTGGGGGTGCTCCTGAGGGCACACAGGCCCGCTGGCCTCCCTGTAGCCCTGCCTGTGCCCCCAGCAGGCCTCTGGACACTGCAGCGCTCATGGGCTGTGGGGGTGTCATCCACTTGCTGGCCCCGTGTGCCTGGGGGAGTGGTCTACAGGCCCTGCTTCTCTCCACAATCACAGGTGCTGCTGGCCAAGGGTCAGTTGAAGCCCAAGGGCCCTGAGGGGCACGGGGGTAGCCCCGAGCTGTGGCTGAGAACAGAGGGCCCCCTTCCACAGGGGACCTCATCTGCCTGGCGGAGGTGCCCCATGGGGAGCAGCTAGGGGTCACCTGCAGTTGCCCCCTGCCTTAGACCCGGGGGTGCATACTCTGGAAGCCTGGGGTGAGAAGCTAGGCCAGCCCAGGAGACCCCGGGCAGCTTTCTGGGCCCTGTCGGCGGGGCGAGGCCCTGGGCCCGTGGGAGTTGCTGCTGGCTGGCAGGCGCTTCTTGGCACCGGCTCTGGGAGCATGTGGTGACCAGGTGGCCCGGGGTCAGCACCTGCGAGGAGGCCAGGCTCCGTGTTAGTCACGTGCACTGTGAGGTGGGCGCGTTGAGCGCTGCCTACCACCACCTGGGCCACCGAGGGCCCCTCCCACCTGCCCCCTGTCCTGCTGAGCTCAGGAGTGTGGCCTGGGTGTTTGTGGTCCCCTGCACAGTGGGGGACGGTGGGAGGAGGATCTGGAGAGGGACACATCACTCCTCTCCACTCCCACGCAGAGTGTTCAAGCTCTGGCCCCTGTCCTTCCTCGGGAGCAAACTCTCCACGTGCGAACAGCTCCGGCACCGGCTGGAGCACCTCACGCTAATCTTCAGTACACGGAAGGCGGAGAACCCTGCCCAGCTGATGAGGTGTGGGCCTGCCCTGGTCTCTGCAGGGCTGGGTGCGTGCCCTCTGGCCCCTTCTCCATCCCCCTCTGCACCACGCTGACCCCTCCGGCCAGGCAGGCCTCCTCCTGCGGCCCCAGGCTGTGCTGGCCACCCTCATGCCGGCCGGGCCGGACCTCCCTTCCAGGAAGGCCAACACGGTGGCCTCTGTGCTGCTGGACGTGGCCCTGGGCCTCATGCTGCTGTCCTGGCTCCACGGGAGAAGCCGCATCGGGCATCTGGCCGACGCCCTCGTTCCTGTGGCTGACGTGAGTGGACTGGGGTGGAGCCCGGTGTCCCGGGTGGGCGTGGGGACCCCTCCTGGGCAGCAGAGCCTTCCCGGGCCAGAGCCACCGCCCCACAAAGCCAGTTCTACCTTCTCCATGCTCTGGAGACACGGCCCTCCCCTGAACCAGAAGCAGGAACTCCAGGGGCGCTGGGGCCTGGGCAGGGCAGGCCTCGCAGGTACACCCCCCTTTCCTTCTGAAGGGGCTGTGTGCAGGAGCCAGCCGGGCTGAGGCTCTGGGGAGCCCGCCTCTCCCTGTGGGCCCAGCGTCCTGGTATCTCCCTTGTGGTCCCTGAGATCAGCGTTGCCCTCCTGGCTCTCTGGGGCCCTCTGCAGAGCCAGGGTCATGAAACCTTTCCTGTCCAGGGAGGCCCATGTGCAGCCCAGCTGGGACTTCCTGCCCTGCCCCTGTGCTGATTCTGTAACTCCTGTGCTGAGAGCCAGAGGCACAGCTTGTCTCCCATCTCCCACCTTCCCTGCATGGTCTGTGCCCCGTTTCCAGCCGGGTGCAGCCCCCTCCTCTGCAGATCTAGTGCATTTCCATGCTGCCTCTGGGCCTTCAGCTTCTCTGTCTTCCTCCCTCAGCACCAAAGCCCCGTCTCTTCCATTAGGAGCTTGTCTTCCTGCTGGGGGTGGTACCTGACTCTTTGGCCCACCCTCGGGCCTCTGTGGAGGCCTCCTTGAGGCCTGACTGGGTGGGTCTTGTGTGGGCTGCAGGTGTGCACTGGGCCTGCTTGTGGCCAGGCCAGGCCTCTGGGGGCAGCATCAGGCACGTCTGTGTGGCTGTGGGGGTGCAGGGAGCTCCAGCCCAGAAGGAAGGAGGGGCGGGGCTGGGGAAGGGGCTCGGCAGCTTTGCCTGTGGTCGTCCGCACCTGCCACCGGCCTACTTTGTCCTAGACCTCCCTTTTGCAAAAGTGCTCAGaaatataaatatttaatttaaaaatGAAAGTCTCTTCCTGCTGCCAAGCTCTTATCCTTTAAATATTAAATAAGCTCTATTTATAAAGAATGTTCTTTTCTCagccgggggtggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggcggatcatgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaatcccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccaggtatggtggtgggcacctgtagtcccagctaattgggaggctgaggcaagagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggcagagcttgcagtgagccgagatctcaccactgcactccagcctgggcgacaaaacaagactccgtctcagaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGTGTTCTTTTCTCCTTCTTGCCAGTCCTGCTGTGGCTGAGGCCTTGGCCCAGGCTTGGAAGGGGCCTGCGCAATGGGCAAGTGGGGGCCAAGGTGTCACTCACTGTCTCCTTAGTGGGGAGGCTGAGGCTCCCTTGGGGTCTGCCCGCTGGGGCACAGCCTCTGGATGCTGAGTTTCTTCCTGGGCGGCCAAGACCCTGCTTCCCTGTTTGCTCTTGGGGGTGCCTGTGCCCTCAACTTGACGCCATCCTCCCTCTGGGGACCTGTCCTCCTGCCTGGTCGCTGTGGCCCTGATGGGCTTGGCACTGTCTCGCTCACCTGTGGTCATCCCGGGCAGCCCCCAGCCTCTGCGATGGGGTGGGGCCTCTGGAGGGGACTGTGTCAGCTGTGGGCTTCCCTGCAGGGCTGGAGCCGAATCAGGGTCTGCCAGGCCTCAGTGCGTCCACGTGTTTGGGGCCGAGGGCTCCAGTGGGTCCTGTGGCCGAGGTAGTGAGAGGGGAGGAAGATGGTAGAGGTGGGTGCAGGCAGGGGGCCACGCGGATGCCCTGTGGGCCCGGCCATGTCACCCAGGCCTGCAGAGAGAGGCCTCCAGACCAGCCTCCTCAGACCCCAATCCCGGAGCCATCTGTGAAGGGGAGCCCGTGTGCTGTCCACGCTAGGACGCGGTAGACCCTGGAGGAGGGAAGGCTGGCCAAGGTGGGAGCCCATCACGAAAGAGCCTGGGGAGATGCAGGTGCTGAGCCTGGCTGCCCCCGCCCCAGCGTGGCCCCTGTGTCCCTGCAGCACGTGGCCGAGGAGCTCCAGCATCTGCTGCAGTGGCTGATGGGTGCTCCCGCCGGGCTCAAGATGAACCGTGCACTGGACCAGGTGCTGGGCCGCTTCTTCCTCTACCACATCCACCTGTGGATCAGTGAGTGCAGGGCAGGCGGGGGCCCCAGGGACCCCAGAGCTTGCTGAAGAGGGTAGGGACCCAGCCAGACCCCGCCCCCTGTGCCCCCAACTCTGCTCCCCAGCGTCCTGTGTGTGTGAGGCCTGCTGTGCTCAGCTGAGGGCTGGGGCCTGGGCACCTCCCGAGGGCTGACCCCACCCTGCCAGGCTACACGCACCTCATGTCCTGTGTGTGTGAGGGTTGTGCTGGGCCGAGGGCTGGGGTCTGAGCGCCTCCTGAGGGCCTACCCCACCCTGCCAGGCTACATCCACCTCATGTCCCCCTTCGTGGAGCACATCCTTTGGCACGTGGGCCTCTCGGCCTGCCTGGGCCTGACGGTGGCCCTGTCCCTCCTCTCGGACATTATCGCCCTCCTCACCTTCCACATCTACTGCTTTTACGTCTATGGAGCCAGGTGGGCGTGGGCTTCCCCCTCCCCACCGCCCCCTGGGAGGTGCAGAGGCTCCGGCTGGGCGGGCGTTCGAGTggggcgggggcggggcggggcggggcggggccgggcCCGACAGCACTGCGTCCTGTAGGCTGTACTGCCTGAAGATCCATGGCCTGTCCTCACTGTGGCGTCTGTTCCGGGGGAAGAAGTGGAACGTTCTGCGCCAGCGCGTGGACTCCTGTTCCTATGACCTGGACCAGGTATGGGGCAGGGTTCGTGGCTGGAGGGGCTGACTGCCTCCGGCCTGTGCCCGCTGGGCCAGCGCGGTGCTTGGGCACCACAAGGGGGCAGCCTGCTCCCGTCCTGCAGCTGAGGCCGCGCACAGGCCCTGGGAATAGATAAGTCTGCGGTGTGGGCTGCACGTGGGGCTCTGAAGCAGCGCAGAGCTTCCCTGGGCCACAGAGAAGAGACAGACACACAGCCCCGAAGGTGGTGCAGGCACAGGCCCTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCAGAGACTAGAGATGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTTGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTTGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTTGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTTGAGGTGCCCCGGGCCCGGAGACTAGAGGTGCCCGGGCTCGGAGACTAGAGTTGCCCGGGCCCGTCTGCTGCTCACACTTGCCGCAGCCGCTGGATGCTGCCATGCAGAGCATGTTCTTGGTGACTGTGTGGCCACGCACCGTCTTGGGTGGTCTGGCCCCCACCTGTCTCCCTGCGAGTCCCCTAGTCCGTGGGGTGTGGGTGGACAGCCCTCCTGCTACTGGGACTGCTTCTGAGCAGGCCATCCCGAGTTCCCTCAGGAAGCCGCAAGGTCCCGACTGCAGCTCCGGGATGGGGGAGGGCACAGTGCTGGGCCGTCCCTGGGCGCGGGGTCCTGCTGATGCCCGGTGTGCTGGCCCCTCCCTACAGCTGTTCATCGGGACTCTGCTCTTCACCATCCTGCTCTTCCTCCTGCCTACCACAGCCCTGTACTACCTGGTGTTCACCCTGGTGAGCTGAGCACCCACAGGCTGGGCCTGGCTGCAGTGCTCTGTGTGGCTTCTGCCAGCGCTGCCTGGGAGCAGTCAGCTGTGGGGCGGGCTGTCTCCTGCTGCAGGCCACGTGGGTGGCCTTTCAGGACCCTCTGGGCAGTGAGTGCTGCGCTCTGGAGTGGGCGAGGCCCTATCCTGGCCAGTAAGACACCCTCACTGCCCTGGAGCACGCAGCTGGGTGCGTGGTGGAAGGACCCCACGGCAGGTGGGGTCACGCAAGAGGCCTCCCCTGGTGCCTGGCACTGGGGCAGACAGTGGGAGGTGAGCAGAACCACCTCCAGCACCTGCTTGATTCCCAGGCCTCGATCCCCTCTGCATGTGAGGCTGTGGGGAGGCACCTCTGACCTGGTGAGAGGGCCGGGTGCTCCGCCTCCAGCTTTGCTCCAGAGCAAGGCCCAATGGCAGACTCCGTGCCCTGCTCAGGGTGGGGTCCCTGCTCTCCCCAGGACCCTGCAGCCTCTGGGCCCCCTTCATCGTGGCCCAGGATGGGGTCGGACTGCTCTGCCCCCAGGCGCGTCTGGCCGGGCCGGTCCTAAATGCTCCTCTGCCACAGCTCCGGCTCCTGGTGGTCGCCGTGCAGGGCCTGATCCATCTGCTCGTGGACCTCATCAACTCCCTGCCGCTGTACTCACTGGGTCTTCGGCTCTGCCGGCCCTACAGGCTGGCGGGTAAGTGCTGCGTATTGGGCAGCTGGCCCTGGGTAGGTGGAGGGGAACCACACCTGTGGGCCCTGCAGAAGCAAGGACAGCATGGGCCACTGTGCCTCCAGCCTGGAAGCCGTGGTATGCATGCGCAAGCGGGCAGGGAGGACAGGGCCTCCTAGTCCCAGAGGTCTGCAGGACCAGCTGCCTCCAGGGAGGTGGAGAGAGACTCAGAGACTCACCTGCCGCGCAGGTTCAGAACCCTGGAGACCTGAGGCCACAGGCCTTTGTTCTTCTGCCTTGGGATTTTCTGGGCTTGGGAGTCTGAACTGCAGGCCAGGGGCCAAGCGCGGCAAAGTCAGAGGCACTAGGAGCCAGCAGGGCGGCCACCATCCAGTAAGTGCCCCGTCCGCTGTGCCGGAAAACCCCGTCCACTCAACAGCACAGCCTGCGCCCGTCCCTCACTGGGGCTCTTCCCTGCTTGCCGGACACCTGGCTTCTTTCAGTGGAGTCTGCAGGAGGCttttttttttttgagacggagtctcactttgtcgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcgcaatctcggctcactgtaatctctgcctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctaggattacaggtgtgtgccaccacgcccagctaattttttgtattttagtagagatgggggtttcaccattttggccacgctggtctcgaactcctgacctcgtgatcctcccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcacgagccaccgtgcccggcttttttttttttttttttttgagatggagtcttgctctttttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggtgtgatctcagctcactgcaaccttcgcctccctggttgaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccaagtagctgagattacaggcacacgccatcacacccggctaatttttgtatttttagtacgtatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcatgatccgcccacctcccaaaatgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgtgcctggctGCAGGAGGCTTTGATGCCGGCCTGGCAGCCAGCTCCAGGAGTTGGGCGACGGAGGGGGCGGGGAGAGCTTCGTGGGTGGCCACGGCCAGCAGCACCCGGGTGCCCCTCAGAGAGGAAGGTACCTGCAGCCTCTGCTCATGTGTGGGGCCAGCCCCCACGCGTCCCCTCGTCAGCCGCTTGCTATCCTTGCAGCTGGCGTGAAGTTCCGTGTCCTCCGGCACGAGGCCGGCAGGCCCCTCCGCCTCCTGATGCAGGTGAGGCCCCTTGTGGCCAGGACGCCCCTACGCTGCTGCCCCTGTTCTGGGACGGTGGGGTCAGCTGGGTGTAGTGTCTGGGTGGCACCACGCCAGCCTGCGATGAGGTACAGGGAGGGCCCAGTGGAGCTGAGGGGGAAGGCCCACGCGGGACCCCCTCCCCCTTACCCCCAGGGCCTGAGGACACTGGTGTGGTCCTGTGGATGGGGCCCATTCTGCCCTGTGTCGGAGGCGCCCTTGGCTGGCTGGGGCTGCCCTGGGCCCCACAGGGCTCAAGTTCTGGGTGGAACAGAACCGACTGAGTGAGTCCTGGGGTGGGGTGTGCGTCCCTGTGGCACGGCCCCTCAGAGTTGGGCAGCCCCGAGGGGAGATGCAGCTTCTGCCTCCCCCCAGCGCTCCCTTCTGGCTGCAGGCTCACTTGCCTCCTTGGGAACTGGGACTGGCTTCTCCCACAGGCAAGGGAATGTCTGAGACAGCACTGGCCCTGCCTCACAACTGCCCGCCCCCACCCTCTCTCTGCAGACGGGGTTGGAGCTCAGACCACCCCACTGACCGCTGCCCTTGTCCTTCCAGATAAACCCACTGCCCTACAGCCGCGTGGTGCACACCTACCGCCTCCCCAGCTGTGGCTGCCACCCCAAGCACTCCTGGGGCGCCCTGTGCCGCAAGCTGTTCCTTGGGGAGCTCATCTACCCCTGGAGGCAGAGAGGGGACAAGCAGGACTGAGGGAACTGCTGGCTCGCCTGGCACCACCACACGGCCACAGCCAGCCATCTGCTCTGCCAGGGTGGCACCAGCTCAGCTGGCGCATGTCCTGTGCTTTGTGGACGCTGCTGTGTGCTCCTGAACACGGCAGGCCCTGCTATCACACCTTGGGCTTGGAGGTCATTGGGAGTGAGCAGATGTGGGGGTGGCCAGCCAGGCTGGCCGCACTCCATCACTGGCACTGCCTGCCTTGGGACCCGCTTCCCACCTGCTGCGGTCACCATGGTGGCGAGCACAGCAACCCCAGGTGTCCAGAGCACTGCCCCATGCCCACCCTGTGTACCCAGGTCCAGAGGGTCCGTCCACCACAGCAGCCCCAGGTGGAGGGCTGGTCTCCCTGGGGGCTCCCCAGTGGCTCTGCCCTGGCTGTGGGGGTGGAGGGACCTTGCCAGGATGAACCCCCCAGTCCCAGGCACCCTCTAGCTCCCTCAGCCGAACAGCACCCTGCATCTGGGGGATTGAAGCAGTCGCTGACCCCCGTCCCCAGCGGGCCCGGGCCCTCACTCCCTGAACCACACGGGGTTTATTTGCGGATGTTCCCTGGAGAGGTCGCTTTGTGAAGAAACCATCAGCAGGCTGTGAGCATCGCCAGGCTGCTGTGGGGGCGGGAGCAGCCTCAGTGTCAAGGGCCCGCCCACTGACCCAGCCGTACCTATTCGTCCACGGTGCCCCGTAGCAGCAGGTCCTGCGGCCAAATCTGTCTCCCTTCATGGGCCTCCCAGGGAAGGAGGAAGCCCTGCTGTGCAGACACCTCTGTGGCCCCCCAGGAGTGTGAGTGGCCTGGGGAGGGGGCCGTGGCACTGAGGCCGAAAGTGCCTGCCAGACGGCACGGTCTGGGTGCGGGTGTTCCCTGTGAGCCCGAGTCCGCTTCAGGAGGGGAGCCTGCAGGTGCCGGCTGGTGAGGGGATGACGCGCTGTGGGTGGGAGGAGGCAGCGCCCATCTCAGCAGCACCAGGACTGCCTGGGACTCCCTGGCAACCCAGCACCGGGGAAGCCGTCAGCTGCTGTGACAATAAAACCTGCCCCGTGTCTGGAGCGCAGGCTCGGTCCCGGGTCCATGTGCAGCGCGGGTCCAGGGAAGCTCTGGGGGGGGGGTGTGTGGACGCTACTCGAGGGACTTGGGCTGCCTCACGTGGGTCTGCCCTGCAGAGTCTACACCGGCCTCCTGCTGGAGGCCCTGACGACGGCTGATGGGACGGGCTCACAGGCCCTGGGCCCTTGAGGACTTTGGTGTAGGCAGGTGAACCCGGGCCGCCCACCCTGGGGGCCGCCCACCCTGGGGTCGTGGCCTTGCCTCGACATAGATGGTGCAGGGGTGTAGGCCTCCAGGGGTGGGGCGAGCAGCTCCTGCTCTGAATCTGTGGACTCCATGTGGGGTGGGCCCCTCGTGGGTCCTGGCCCAGTACAGCCTGCGACTGCCACAGCTGCTAAGAATGGTCTCTGTCGCCTGCAGTGCTGGGGGCCCAGCTGGCGGGCCCCACAGCCCGTTCCCAGCCCGAAGTGTACAGGCCTCCATCCAACCTGGACTTCCAGGCAACCAGAGGCACTCAGGGCCCACCAACCCCCTACCTGTGTCCCCTGCCTCCCCCCAGCTGCCCACCTGGCCCACCACCCCTCCCATCTGTACTCTCCCCCACTCACCCTCCAGTTGCCTACCTGGCCTACCCTGCTCCTACCAGCTGCCCACCTGGCCTGCCACCCCTCCCACCTGTGTCCCCTGTCCCCCAAAGCTGcccacctcgccccccaccctttccacctgtacccccaactccccctccagctgcccaccaagtccaccaacacccccaacctgtacctcccgctccccccagctgcccaccgggtccaccaacacccccaacctgtacctcccgctccccccagctgcccaccgggtccaccaacacccccaaccTGTGCCTCCCGCTCCCCCCAGCTGCCCACCGGGTCCACCAACACCCCCAACCTGTGCCTCCCGCTCCCCCCAGCTGCCCACCGGGTCCACCAACACCCCCAACCTGTGCCTCCCGCTCCCCCCAGCTGCCCACCGGGTCCACCAACACCCCCAACCTGTGCCTCCCGCTCCCCCCAGCTGCCCACCGGGTCCACCAACACCCCCAACCTGTGCCTCCCGCTCCCCCCAGCTGCCCACCGGGTCCACCAACACCCCCAACCTGTGCCTCCCGCTCCCCCCAGCTGCCCACCGGGTCCACCAACACCCCCAACCTGTGCCTCCCGCTCCCCCCAGCTGCCCACCGGGTCCACCAACACCCCCAACCTGTACCTCCCACTCCCCCCAGCTGCTCACTGGGCTGCCACGCCTCCTGGGGCTTCCACCAGGTCAAGGTCTTGACACAGCTCAGTCCACTGCTCTGTGATGGCCATGTCATGGGTCGTGCCTGGCAGCGGTCACCCCCTCTGCTGGGCACTGGGCTGACTGCCTATCCCGAGGGCCAGCTAGGTTTGGCGCCAGAGCTGGCCAATGGAACACCGTCACCCCAGCCACTCGCAGCCACCAAGAGGTGCCGCCTGCACCTGCAGGCTCCGTCTGTCCTTGCTGCACAGCCCCTGCCTGGAGACAGCCTACACCTGTGGGGTGCCCCTCATCCCTCCACCAGAGCTCTGGTCCCCCCTGCCTTGCCGACCCAGACAGGGCAATGGGCTGGAGCTTTTCCAAGGCCTGCCCAGGACCATTTATGGACCCTCAGGGCACCCTCAGAAGCAGACACCTTCCCTTTCAGAGTTGGGGCCGCCCACAGAGAAGGGTCTCACCAGTACTTCACAGAttcagacttacagaaatgctgtgagaataacacagatgcttccagcacccttcacctacatccccccacgaccacatgccatgtgtatgttttcacattttttctttttttttttttttgagagcgggtctctattttccaggctggagtgcagccttaaccttcctgggctcaggtgattctcccacctcagcctcctgactatctgggattacaggcacccaccaccacgcctggctcatttttgtacttttagtagagatggggtttcaccgtgttactcaggctggtctcaaactcttgggctcaagccatgtgcctgcgtcggcctcccaaagtggtgggattacaagtgtgagccaccgggcccagccagcacattctttatgtttttctgcaccatttgagtcagctgcccattttggctctggaattttcagcgtgcatttcctcagaacaaggCAGCCAGTGCGGTGCTCAAACCCGGGGCTTTTGCAGGGATGCCGTCCAAGCCACCGACCCCATTCCAGCGTGTCCCACGTGTCATGGGCCAGTCTCCAAAGCCTCTGGGGGCTTAGGGATGGAGCCCGTTACTCAGGAGTGTCCCTGGCTGGGTCTGCTGGTGACCCTCATGATGAGATGCCACTCATGCTTGTGGCAGCAGCAGAGGGCACCACCCAGggtggcacacagagcccacctgttcatcccagtgatgccaacgtgactacttggtcgaggtcttgtctgcaggattttccgctgcaaagctacattcccttgtcattaatTTGTCCACAGAAATGGGACCATGTTGACGCTCCATCCCTCACTGCCCTCATCCACTGCACGCTGTGTCCACCAAGGTGATTGGCTCTGTCCACTCATGGGATGTGAGTGAGGCCTCCCCTTGGCAGCAGGCCAGGACTGGGGGGGGTCCCTGAGTAGCTGAAACTTGTAGGTGCTCCCTGGGCACAGGGCTTCAGGGGCCAAGGCTTGTCTGCCCCACTGGGCAACTGTCCACCCCCTTAGCAGGACTTTGAGGACATCCCGGCGGCTGCTGGGCTCCCCGGGGGCAGGGTGGACACCCCAAACTGCTCCCTTTGTCTCCCAAGCCCCTCACTTGGACAGAGGCTCCGCTTAGTGTCCTGGCCCGTCTCTGCCATGGCCATTGAGTGTGGGGTGTGGCAGAAGGGGGCTGTCAGGGTCTCCACCAGACACTGCTCAGGCCTCCGAGATGGGCCCAGAAATACCCTGACTGCTCAACAAGTGGGTGCCCAGGTGGTGGCTCACCCCAAACTTCTGGGTGGAGGTCTCTTCCCACACTCCACTGTCTTTGGCTGCCCTGTCCCTGGCCTGAGATCTCTCAGCTGCAGGGATGGTGTCCTGCCCCTGCCCAGGCCTGGCTTGGCCATGGTGGACCCCAGGACACCCTGCGTAAGTGCACGCAGCTGCCCCTCGGTCCACAAGGCCTGGATGCCAGAGGATGGCACCCCTCTGTCCATCCCTCCCTTCACTGGGCCTGCTGCCCCAGAGTCCGTCCCTCCCTTCACTGGGCCTGCTGCCCCAGAGTCCGTCCCTCCCTTCACTGGGCCTGCTGCCCTAGACCCATCTGGGTTCCCTGGGACACTTTTCTGCTCGGAGGCTGGGAGGTCAGAGGGCACAGCAGCTTTCCAAGGATCTCACCCTATGGAAAGGTTCCTGAACCCAGGAACCCAGGACAGGGCTGTGTCCACAGGCTGTGGTGGGCAGCTCCAGTGGGAGAAACCTGACTTCTTCATCAGCCAGGGGATGACCCTTTCTTGTCCCAGGAGGTGGGAACTAGGCAGCAGTGGCCCACGGCTGGGTCTGGAGAGCGTTTTACTTTGTTTTTCTTTTTTAAAAAAGTTTATTTTTGTGAAGACCATAAGAACATTTTTAATTGTTTATTTTTGAGGCACttttttttttttttttttcctgagacaagagtctcactctgtagcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatctcagctcactgcaacctccgtttcccgagtttaagcaattcttctgcctcagcctcctaagtagctgggattacaggcacgtaccaacatgcctggctcatttttgtattttcagtggagagggggttatcacgatgttggccaagctggtcctgacctcaggtgatccacccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgacccaccgtgcccggccTCAGAAAGCGTTTCTGATTTATGTTCTCAGGAAAGGAGGAGACGGCTGCTCACCACTATCCACCCCCCGCTTCCAGGCAGTCTCAGAAACCGAGGAGGAAACATCACATCTTTGGTGCTTCCCGTCCCTGGAGTGAGGGGCCTCAGGGACTTCACAGCCAGGGCTCAAGTCTGGGCACAATGACCTCTGAGCAGAAGAGGCTCTCCCTGACCCGCCAGGTTGTTTCCGGGTTAATgcctggggaacttggcaaggcgccatctctacaaaaaatacaaaaggtagccgggcatggtggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggctggaggatcgcttgtgccggggaggtagaggctgcagtgagccgagatcgcgctactgcactgcagcctgggcgacaaagggagaccctgtttcaaaaaagaaaaaaCTGGTGCGTCGATGTGGTCGCCGCTTAGTCAGGCCATGTCTTCAGCTCTGGGGGACGGGAGGTCACTGGAGGTGTGGGGCTGCCCGTCCTGGCGTCCCTCTGTGTAAGCAGCACCTGCTCCCGGAGGCACAGCCCTGGTCGGGGCCCCTCTGGAGGAGGGTTCTTGCCGGGCTCTGCTCCTCGCCGGCGGGGCAGACGTGACGGGCTCCGCACCCGGTCTGGAGAGGGCTGCGCTGGGTCGGCGCTGACGTTACTGCTTTTACTTACGACTGTAACAGCGCTACTGAACGCAGAGCACGTATCACAAAGCTCACCCGTTCCGAGTGAGTAACTTCACCGAGAGAGGCAGGACCATCCCCACGACGGTAGGACCTTCTCGTCACCCCAGAAAGAACCACGTGCCCACTCAACCCCCGACCCCACGCCGGGGCCCGCGGACGCAGCCGCCTCGCTCGCCCACGCACCTGCGGCAGCCGGGCCCGGCAGGGACGAGGGCTCGGCGGCGCCCCCGGGAAGAGCGCGGTCCGGGCCCTGGGTCCCCGTCCAGGAGGCGCCGCTGCCGCAGTGAGCACGTCGGGCCGGGTCTTGAGCTCGCGCCGGCCGCGCTCCCCGCGTCCCGAGCTGTGGCGGCCGCGTCCCCGGGCGGAAGGCTCACGCTCGGTGACGCCGCGCTGTCCCAGAACCTCAGCGACTTTGCAGACTCACTGGTGACCCAACGGTgcgccccgccgccgccgggcggAAGTCCCGCCCCTGCCCCGGAGAGGAAGTTCCGCCTCATCGAGCGCCGATTGGCCGCACCGCCTTAGAGAGGACGCGCCCGGGGCCACCCCGCCGCTCCCTCCGAGGGTTCTGCGGAAGCAGGCGGCACAGCCTGCGAGGGGCTTTCGTTTCCCGGACTCAGCCGCATCGCCTCGGCTCGGGCGCGCCTGCATCCTGCCGCCCGTCCGCGCGTTGAAGGGGCGGATACAAACAACGTGGACTTCCGAGCCCCTGATTGGCGAGCGTGTAGGAAAGGGGCGGGGTTAGCAGAGCCGTGATGGACATGCAAGCGACCCAATGGCGCCGGCGACGGGGCGGGCGAGGACAACGGCGTTGTgggccgggggcggggcggccggcggcTCTGGGATTTCTCTGGGAGGCAGCCGCAGGGAAGGGAATGATCTTGGTGAACTTATAATCGAACCAATGGTTCCGGGAAAGCAGGAGGCGAGTGGCCAATGGCGACGGCGATGAGGCAGGCGTCCGCTGTCTCCGCAACGCCGTGTGGGAAAGGCGGGGGAGGGGCGGTCATGACAGACGTGCAGACAGGCCAATGGCTGAGGGAAGGAGGGCGGCGGGCGACCTCTGGTGACTACGGGAAGGCAGGGCGGGGTGGTGAAGAGGCGGTGCGACCGGAGGTCTGGCGGCGCCGTGTGGAACGCCGTGAGGGCGGGGAAGTCGTgacggacgggcgggtgggccaatgggctcgggagggcgggcgaagggtggccaatggcggcggcgcggccgggggtggggcggcgcggcggccctggtggtgcgggaagcggcggggcggcggcgaggctgaggtgcgcccgggcgcgggcggggcggggccggcgctgggcttcgggcgcgcccactcggccgccgtggggcggacgcaacgggcgcaggtgcggggcgCGGGCTCTCTCACGCCGCGGCCTCACCCGGCGGTGCTTCGGCAggcggccggcgcggggcgcaggcggcgcggccATGGGCTCGCAGGGCAGTCCGGTGAAGAGCTACGACTACCTGCTCAAGTTCCTGCTGGTGGGCGACAGCGACGTGGGCAAGGGCGAGATCCTGGAGAGCCTGCAGGACGGCGCGGCAGAGTCCCCGTACGCCTACAGTAACGGTAAggcccggcccgcggcgcgcgcTGCTACGCGGGGCCCGAGCCCGGCGAGCTGGGCACGGAGCTCGCCCTCGGCCCGGCCCTTCCAAGCGCCGCCGAACGTTCCCAGGAACGCCTTTGCCTGGCTTCCAGACTCGGTAGCTCGGTGGCTGCGGGGTGCCCGTGCTCCAGTCCCGAGGTGACGCCGGGGGGCAGGAGGACGGACCAGAGGGACGCGCCCAGCGGGGACGGTGCCATGGACCCGGGGTCTGGGGGACGGTGTCACGGGTCCGGGATCTCAGGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGTCCGGGATCTGGAGCCCAGGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGTCCTAGAGAAGGTGTCATGGGCCTGGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGTCTAGGATCATCTGGGGTCCGAGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGCTCGGGGGAAGGTGTCGTGGGCCGGAGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGTGCAGGATCTGGGGTCTGGGAGAAGGTGTCATAGGTCCGAGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGTCCAGGATCTGGGGTCCGGGGAAAGATGTCATGGTCCCGGTAGAAGGCGTCATGGGCCAAAAGGAAGGTGTCATGGGTCTAGGATCATCTGGGGTCCGAGGAAAGGTGTCATAGATCTGGGGGAAGGCATCATGGTCCTAAGGGAAGCTGTCATGGGTCTGGGATCATCTGGGGTCCGAGGGAAGGTGTCATAGATCTGGGGAAAGGTGTCATGGGTCTGGGATCTCAGGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGCCTAAGGGAAGGTGTCATGGTCTGGGATCTCAGGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGTCTAGGATCATCTGGGGTCTGAGGGAAGGTGTCATAGATCTGGGGGAAGGCATCATGGTCCTAAGGGAAGGTGTCATGGGTCTGGGATCATCTGGGGTCCGAGGGAAGGTGTTATAGATCTGGGGAAAGGTGTCATGGGCCCGGGGAAGGTGTCACGGACCCAGGTCTGGTGGCAGGTGCTGCTGGGCTGCTCTTGGGACCCTGTCTCGAGCGTGCACAGATGACAGGTCCTTATAGGCACGCTGTTCCCCTGAGGTATTTGCTTACTGCTGAGGGAGTCAACGCTTTGTGCTAGAAGAAAATACCTCTGTAATGAGTTACTGAACATTTGTTTTGTTTTGTTTtcttttcttttctttcttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcactctgtcgccaggctggagtgcagtggcacaatttcagctcactgcaacctccgcctcctgggttcaagcgattcccctgtctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgtatgccaccacgcccggctaattttgttgtgtgtattttagtagagacggggtttcagcatgtcggccaggatggtctcaatctcctgacctcatgatctgcccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagacgtgagccactgcgcctggccTGAACGTTTGTTTTTAACTTCCAGTGGCATGGCTAAAATACACTAGATAGGTGGCATCACTGGGGCTTGCCTGCCTGAGCATGCCTCTTAATTTAGGTGGTTAACAGAGTGAGTGAGACGGTGTGGTCCTCATCCCCTCTCATGGGGGCCTGGACCCAGCCGAATGGGATGTGGCCCCAGATGAACTGGGAGCAGTCAGCATCCAGCCTCCCCAGAGTCCATCTGCGCTTCAGGGAATGCCATCTACGCTGGCGAACTTACCTCTCCTGGTCCCTGCCCTCTCCCCTTGCTTTGTTTCTTGGGCTCTTGTCCGTCCTGTCTGACTGCCCTGAGCGTCTGCTATTTGCTGAATTGTCTGCCTTTGGCTGCTGAGAGTGTGGGCGCAGCATCCCCCACTCTCTCAACTCGGGGGTTGGCAGAGCGTGGGATTACCTGGACTGAGGCTGAGCGCGCTTCCTCCTGGCATGGCTTCAGCAGTGGGCAGCAGCACCGGGGGCTCTGGAAGCTTGTGCTCCTGGCTTCAGCCTGGAGGAGGGGTTGGAAAGGGCCAGGGAGGAAGAGCTCTGTGTCCATTTTGAGGTGGGGGAAGTGTAAGGCCCACTGGGGCATTGGGGGCTCACACGTTAGGCCCCTGCACCTGCCGCCTCCTGGTCCTGCACTTGACAGTGACTGCCCCAGAATTGGTAACTCCTGACTCAGGTGGTGGGCGGCCAAGTTGATTGTGAAGGTGGCGTTGCCTTCTAAAGCTTGGCTCCAGGGGCGCTGCGCACTCCCAGGAGGCTGGCGGCGTGCGTGTTTGTGCATGTTCAGAAGAGCACGGGAAGGATTGGGTTTCATCAATCGGTGTTTTCCCAGGACATGAAGGCGTGCTTCTGAGGGCCGGCTCAGCCATGCTGGCCAGCTCGCCTACCCAACTGCACCACACAGCCAGGAGCTGGAGAGACAGGACCCTCCTTCCTCCCTGTCCCCTTCGTCGGGCTGTGGGGCATTGCCACACTTCCTCTGACATGCTCACTGAAGTGGGGCCAGTATTGTGTAAGACGTGGAGACCTGCCTGCTTGCAGAGACTTCAGAGGCTCACAGTGGCTTGGACCAGAGGCAGAGAGGAGAGTCCACTCTTAGAAAGACACCACGTGCTCTCAGGGCCCGGGGCACACTTCCAGGTCCCCGCAGGAGTCCTGTGGCCTCGAGCAGAGAAGGAAGCGCCTCTGGGCTGTGGAACGCGCTTTCTGTGTCTAAGGTCTCAAGGTTAAGACGTGCACAGCACAAGGAGCAGGTCTTTGTGGTCAGGTGGCAGCTTGCCAACCTCAGGGGCCAGCCCTCTTCATCAGGGTGAAGTTGGTGGATCTGAGGGTTTCCCAAGGGGGCTATTCAGGGTCTCAGAAGCTCAGGAGCAGCTGGTTCTCAGGACTCAGCATCTTGAGAATTTATTCTCCTTTGAAAGAGTTGTAGCAGGAGCTTTAGGCCTCTGGCCCTCGTGGGAAGGACGTACGTGTTAACCTCCATTGCTTTCTCTCCTTTGTTGGGAGGTGCCCTCTGTGTTTCCAGCTTCCGTGTTTCTTCAGGGCTGCCTGCTGGGCAGTGGGTGCCCTTGGCAGGGAGGCCCCTTCTGTGCAAGGCTTACTGCTTCAGCATGGCCCACAGCTCCTTCAGCTCACACCGGATCGCTTACCTGCCTGGAAGTCTTGTCTGGCATGTTCCTCAGACAGGTGTGTGAGCGTACATTGCCCTCTCCAGCTTCACAAACAAATGAGTCATCGAAGTGACCTTTTTCTTAGTACTGGCACCTGAGGCAGTGGCGTGTGACCACACGCCCAGCACCTGTGGGAGCCCCTGTGAGCTCTTCCGTGTCTCCTAATGTGGGTGTGCGCTGGGTTTCTGGATCTCTAGGTCTGGAAAGGCTTTCCTTTCTTTGACACCCAGCAGTGATCTTAGGGAGTGCTTCATGCTCTCTTCAGGATGGAACAGAGCGCTTTGCATAGAGTGCCCCTGGGTGATGGTGGCGAGTTACCCGGCAGGAATTATGCTTCATCCAGGAGTGTGGGTGGTGCACGCGGCGGGGAGGAGAAAGCTGCAGTTCAGGAGCGAACCTGCAGTCAGGCTCCAGGGTGTGGGCCAGGGTGGTGGGCCCGTGTTGGCCCCCAGGAACCACCCGCACAGGGTGCACACCCTTCCCCAAGCCCAGCCGCTCCCGCTCTGCAGGGGGCATCGAAGGTCCTGGATTAAGGCAGTTCCACCCTCGGCACCGTGTCCCCACAAACCTTCCTGGGAGCAAGTTTTCCTCCCGCCACGTTGGTCAGGGTGTGTGTGCCCGGGTCCTGGAAGACTTCAGAAGGGGTTAATCCTGGCTTGACTTTATTTCTCTCTCTGCTCTTTTGGGGTTCAGTGTTGGTGGAAGCTGCTGAGTGACACTCCGGTCCTTTGAGCCTGGCAAGTTGTGGGGAGAAACGGAGGGAGGCGGTTGTGGACATGGCGAGGCTAACATCACGGTTTGCTGTGGATGTTGGGGCCTGGTGGTCACTGAGATGTCTGTGGGGCCACACGCTGCCTGCTGTACCCATGGGAGCGAGGGCACCCTGTGTGGGTGTCCCAGCTTCTTCGGCTTCACGACTCCCTGAGCTTTCTCCAAACAGTTACAAACGTTTCTTCTCATCTGGCTTGAAGTTCGTGGCTCCGAAGTGGCCAATTCCAGGGGACACTATCTTGAGAGGCTCCTCCGTGTTTCATTGTCCTGATGTGTCGTCGGCTGCTTATCCCCAGGGCTAGCTGAGGGTTTCGTGGGAGGTTCTAGCTGTGTGTCTTTAGGTGACTGGACAGCCGTGCGTGGCTTCCCTGTGCCTACTGTTGGTGTTGGGCACCACTGACCACTGCAGCCCAGAGTCCCTTCTCCTCCCCTGCACTTGATTAGGTTTTGCTCGtcttccttttttttttttttttttttagacgaagtcttactctcttgcgcaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgccttctgggttcaagtgattctcctgtctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacagacgcctgccaccatgcgtggctaatttttgtatttttagtagaggcaggtttcaccatgttggctaggctggtctcaaacccctgacctcaagtgatccacctgcctcggGGGTTTTGCTCGTTTTCTGGGGCAGTGTTTTGGGGTTTGCCTTTCCTCTGTGAGGTGCCGGGTTTTCCAGCAGGGTGGTGTTGTGGGAGGAACGGGGTGTTCACCATGGCAACAGCtaatgctgccagcgtgtgatgagtgttgcctgccagcaccggtgggcgctttccgctgcccccgtgtagcccccaccaccacctgtgagaaggcagcaccacccccactgtgcagacgagggattgaggctcaggaggCGGCAGCTGTAGGGGTGGGCTTGGGGTCCGGGAGGAGCCGCCCTGCAGGCCTCCTGTGAAGCAGCGGGCTTCATGGCTCTTCCCCTGTCCTCCTCACGTCCACCTGGGCCTGGGGACGGCTGCCACACACCTGCTTCTGCTGCACCGCGCACACTAAGTTCTCCTGAGACCCAAGCCTCAGAGGACCGCCTCAGGCCCGGGATGACCCTGGCTGGCATCTGAGAACCCATGTGGTCAGGAGGTAGGACTTCTGTGGGTCATTATAACttttttcttctttttttttttttttttgagacggagtctaactctgttgcccaggccggagtgcagtggcacggtctcggctcactgcaagctccacctcccgggttcaagtgattctactgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacagccacctgccaccacacccagctaatttttgtatttgtagtagagatggggtttcactgtgttggccaggctggtcttgaactgctgaccttgtgatccaccctcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaagggtgagccactgtgcctggccTCTAATTGTGCTGTTTTATAAGTTGGACTGGCATGGCCTTACTTAAATTTTCAGGAAACTGTTGAGTCAGTAGGTAGAATATTGAATGTTAAGTTTGTCCAGAGGCCAGATGCCAGAACTTTTGGACAAGTGAGTTAATGTCCACCTCCAGTCCTTAGCACTTGCTCTAAGCGCTCACAGGCAACAGGGCAAATGCTTGCATGGCAGGTGCACGGCAGTGCCAGCCAGGTCTCTCGCAGGGTGGTGTGGACACAGATGACTCGTGTCGAGCACACGTGTTGTGGCCTGCACGATGAGCTAAATTGAACAGTGTTTCAGGAAGGAAGCCACATCGGGGAGCTGAGAGGTGGGCGGGAAGGACACAAGGGAGGGATCTGGGTCCTCGCAGGTACTTTTGCCTCTTGTTCTATTTGAAGATTGCAGCTGAGAAGGCGCGAAGCTGCTGGTCCCTGAAAAGCTGCCGCCTACCCTGGTCTGGAGCCCCTGCGAGCTGGCGTAGAGCAGGAAGGGGTTGCATCACAGCTGAGTCCTCCCCTGCGCAGCACATGGTACGATGCCACCCCACCGAGGGCCGTTCTGGGGCCCAGGGGCCACGTCAGCCAGGGTGTCATCCGCCGGGCGTTTGGAGTAAGCAGGGAAAGGTGTCGGCGTCCAGCATCCTGGTGCGGAGAACGCTGCCGAACCACTGTGAGAAGGCGGGGAGACTGCTTGTCAGGCTGAGCTGACTTCCTGGGCGGTCGGGAGAAGGATGTGCAGACTGTGGAACTGGCGGGTGTCAGGGACCAGAAGTTACGAAGGCGGTGGGAAGAGGAGCAGCTGTGGGAAGAAGGACTGGCTGCCAAGACCATGGGCTGTGGGCATCCTCAGGGCAGGAGCTGGGTGGAAGAGGGGCCTCTTCAGTCCTCTTGGCAGTGAAGGTAAACAGATGTCAGCAGGGTGGACTCGCACTTTGAGCCTAAGGTAGCGAGGAGGCTTCTGAGCCGACCTGGGGATGGCGGCGCACTCTGATACAGGCAGTGCGCGGCTGTCTCGTGCTGAGATCAGGATTTTGAGTAAAGCAGAGATTTCTGGACGTTTGTCCTTCAGAAATTAGCGGAGGGACAAGGGCATTGGCGCTGTGGAGAGGTAGGGACCCATGGGTATGGGGCGGAAGACCAGGGCACGACCAGACACCGCCAGGGTGCTGCACATGTAGGTAGCAGGGGGAGGTGGTCCAGGCAAGATGGGATGGGAGGGGCTCAGGAGCAGCCAGGTTCTAGTGCTGGTGATGAGGTGGGTGGTGGCAGGGGCATGTGGAAGGGTCTTCTGACCATGGCTTACAGAGGGCTTGGTGCTGGGGGGCCTGGAGTTGTGGAAAGGGTGAAGGGAAGagttggtcccatattcccagatggcagagtggaaacagaagcactcggcccctgagcagccttcgccgtctttacagtgaacacagtcctcaaaccaaactgggaaggaTTCGAATCCTGGATGGGTGATGTGGTCCTGGCTGTGTAAACTGACCCTGATGAAAGACATGCCCATCCTGTGAGAGGGACAGCCATCTAGCAtcttttttttttttttaatttttattttttgagacagagtcttgctccgttacccagggtgtagttcgatggcactatcttggctcgctgcaacctcttgagcctcatgggttcaagcgattctcctgccttggcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcaccaccacacctggctaattttttacatttttagtagagacagaggttttgctgtgttggccaggctggtcttgaacttctgacttcaagcaatccgcccgcctcagcttcccaaagttggtggaattacaggcatgagccactgtgcccagccCAGCTCAGCATCTTTGGAAAAGAGCAGAGggctgggcacggtggctcacacctgcaatctcagcaccttgggaggccgaggtaggcggagtgctggagcccaggagtttgaggccagcctgggcaacacagtgagaccccatctctacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggccgggtgcagtggctcacacctgtaattccagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggtgaatcacgaggtcaagagattgagaccatcctggccaacatgatgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattggccaggcatggtggctcacgcttgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcaggtggatcacgaggtcaggagatcaagaccatcctggctaacatggtgaaaccctgtctctataaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcatggtggcgggcacctgtagtcccagctacttgggaggctgaggtacgagaatggcgtgaatccaggaggcagagcttgcagtgagccgagatcacgccactgactccagcctgggtgacagagcgagactccacctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaatacaaatacaaatacaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgcatacctgtagccccaactacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaacctgggtggcggaggttgcagagagctgagattgtgccactgcactccagcttggtgacagagcgagactctgtctcacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaaagaaaattagctgggtgtggtggtgcacgtctgtagtcccaattacttgggaggctgaggtgggaaactcactggagcctgggaggtggtggctgcagtgagtctgactgttgcactacgttccagcctgggtgacagagtgagaccctgtctcaaaaaataaaaaataaagaaAAGAGGATGGAAGAAGAGAAGAGCTGAGTCCTGGAAATGGGCAGGTACTTTACAGTTTGTACAGCGGCCGGATGTAAGAACCTCATGTCAACCCTGAGTGAAGGTGTAGGCCGGGCGGTCAAGCACAGCACTCTCCAGCAGCTCCAGCAGCGTGGGTAACCCGGTGGGAGCCTGTGTGCTGCTTTCCCTGCCCGGGGCCGgcggctgctgctgggctttcgcctgacttcctggtcagcaacgttgtcggccacctgggcacagcaggtacagcctgtgtgtcagacctagctgggaggggcggtaatagggtagatgacatcaggattcaggactctgaacacaaacacagtgacactgatcagggttgccgaggtgctgtgtttcggtccagaaagtcactgctgcaggggaggggaGTATGGTCACAGCCCAGGCCCCGGCCCCGGCCGAAGCTGCCACTGACAGGAGACCCTTCTCTGCCTGTGCCACCAGCTTTGCTCCGAGGGGTGTCTGTGTCCTCAGGCTCTGCCAAGGCAGTGTCAGGCTGATGCCTGCCCGTGTCGGCCGGCCACAGCCCTAGTGGCTGCCCGCAGAGTCTTGCGCCCACCTGATTCCTGCCTGAGAGGAGCCGCCAGGTCAGCTGATGCCAGCAGGACCCACTTCACCAGGTCAGCAAGGAGGAGGCAGCTTCCCTTGGGGCCACGCCGTGCCTCCTCCGTGTGCGCTGCTGCCATGGCTGCTTCTGTCGATAGGCATGTACGTGAAAATGCACACCCGTGGGTGTTCGCTACTGTCAGCGTGGATTCAGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCAGCAAGGTTTTGTTACCTCGTGGCATTAATCAGCGTGGATTCAGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTTGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTCGCAAGGTTTTGTTCCCTCGTGGCATCAGTCAGCGTGGATTTGCAAAGTTTTGTTCCCTTGTGGCATCATACTCCTTTCCTGTTTGGTTTGGGACTCCCATGGCCCCCTTGATGTTGGAGCCTCTTCAGGTGGCACCTGCGTCCTGGGCTATGCCCTGAGTTCCCGGAGCTCCCTGTGTCCTGGAACAGTCTGTACTTCCAGCAGATGTGGGTCCTGCCTGCCCTGGAAACGGCCATCTCTCTGAAGAGCCTGTGTCCTCCTGGTGGGGAGGGATAGCTAGTATGTCAGCTTCTTAAATTACTTTATTAAAAATTGAGTATATGCAAAATAGTAGTCATAATAATAGTAATAGTAGCAAGTGCAAAGTGTAAGTAATAGAAATGGATGTCACCTAACCTGCCGAGTTTAAAACATTGTTGTTGGACTTTTTTAAAGAGCTTTGGTGCCGGATgggcacggtggctcacgcctgtgatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacaaggtcaagagatcaagaccgttctgaccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaattcaaaaattagcttggcctggtggcatgcacctgtattcccagctactcagcaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacctggggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccgagtttgcaccactacactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagactccatctcaaaaaaataaaaataagaGCTTTGGTGCCTACGTGCGTCACACAGACAGTTTAACACATAATTCATTATCAGCAAGCGGTGACTGCCCAGGTTTTGCCTGTGGGGAAACAGAAAGGTTTTGACTCCAGTCTCTGTCTTCTGAAGAGCTGGCAGTCACAACTGTGGCAGAGCCTGGTGTGTGGCAGCTGCGTGAGGCTCTCCTGGACTGCTGTGGAGGAAGGGGCCCTCTGGCACCCCAGGAGCAGCCTGCCCCTCTGTCTGCCTCTGCATTTAGACCCTTAGCCTCCTTGCAGAGCCACCTCCTGGTCATTAGCGTTAAAGCTCTTCTCTCCTGATGTAGTTTTCCTCACCGTTCAGTAAATGGGCCTGCTGCTTGTGTTTGGAACAGAGATAGAAGCTGTAGCTCCCACGTGTGTGTGGAGCTGGTTTGACTTTTAAAAAATTGTAGTACCAAAAACTATGATTTTTTGTGTGTTATCCACACCATCAAGGCTGTATCACCGAGTATCTGCTCATTCTGAAAGTGTGCATCCTTTCTGAATTGAAATGAAAGAGCAGGAGAAACCGTCTGTGTCCAGCCTGTTAGAGGTGTTACATTTGCCCTAGGTGGGCTGGGCAGAAGGCTGTTCTGCTCGGGAGCAACAGTGTCCACACGTCAGTTTCCAGAGCCCGGGTCGCCAGGATCCGGCTCAGAGTGTGAGTTTGCTCAGGTGTGTGCTGAGCACCCCTGGGTGCCAGACTCCGGGCAGGTCCCCGCCGCAGCCGCGTCAGCAGAGCAATGTGATCGTTGCTGGGACTGTTCCCCTAGTCTCAGTCAGTTCACTAGGGCCATGCATGCAGTGTTCAGACAGGAGATTCTCATGAAAAATAGAATTGTTATCCTAAAATTACATGAGAGGGAATGCTTATAAGTTTATCAAATAGTAAAACATCACAACACAGGAccgggtgcggtggtgcacgcctataatcccagctacttgggaagtcaaggcaggcgatcccctgaggccgggggttcagactaggcaacgtagcaaggccctatccctgcaaaaaaaagtaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggccggatgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagattgggaccatcctggccagcatggtgaaactccgtctctactgaaaatataaaagttagcggggtgtggtgtcgggcacctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaagagaatcgcttcaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagattgcaccactgcactccagcctgggcaacagctctcaaaacaaaacaaaaaaCTACTGATTTGGAGGCACATTTAATGATTATTCAATGAAGTGTATATGCTTGATATCTTAAGTATGTAAAATAATTGTGGAATGAAATATATGACAACATTAGCAGTGGTCATCTCTGTttttttttttttggttttgtttttttttattagagagacagtttcactcttccaggctggagtgcagtgatcatagttcactgcagcctcaaattccagggttctagtgatcctcccgcctcagcctctcaagtagctaagaccataggcatgcaccacaacacctggctaattttttaataaattatttttttatttttgagacaaagtcttgctcttgtccaccaggctggagtgtgatggcacgatcttggctcactgcaacgtctgcctcctgggttcaagcctcttgcctcagccccccgagtagctgggattacaggcacctgccaccacgcccggctagttttttggtatttttttagtagagatgaggtttcaccatgtcggccaggctggtctcgagttcctgacctcaagtgatccacccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccactgtgcctggccaataaattattttttgtagaattgaggtcttgccatgttgcctaggctagtggtcttgaactcctgggctcaagtgattctctcaccttggcctcccaaagtgtcgagatgacaggtgttagccaccaagcacagccAGAAATGAGTCTTAAAGTGGACATGAGATTGGGGTTTAAGCCACACTAAGCTGGATTTGTAATCATTGAAAGTAATCTGAGAGCTATGGGATCTGCTCCTTAAAAGATGGGAGAGGAGAAttttaagagatagggtctcactgtgttgcccaggctggtcttgaaccgtggcgctgaagcaatcctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctggggccaGACCTGTGTTTTTTGTTTTCTTAATGTTCTGTGTTTAGCCAGGTGTTCTGTGCCAAGTGTGCCTGCTCTTTGTAGACACGAGAGCCCTTTTGGCTTGTTGTGGGTTTTAAGGCGTTAAGTAAAAGCTCTAGCTTCGCAGGAAACCAGTCCACAAACTGCCCTAGAATTTCTTCTGACATTTGGCATGCTGGTGTACACAGACACATTTGAAATTTGTTAGATAACTTTTCCTTCCTTTACTGTCCTCCATCAGGCAGGCGCCGGTTTGCCTGCAGTGGGGTTGGTGGACGTGGGCTGTCCTTGTCTCAGAAGACATCCGAGGGGAGTGGTATGCCGGAAGATTGAATGCGGAGCGCCGGCCCCGCACGTGAATGACTTAGAGCCCCAGGTCTTCAGGGACAGGCAGTGCCTTCACATCTGGCTCTGATATGTGTTCAGGCTGTCTTGTAGGGTAATCCGGTCCCCTAATCCTTAGACCTCCAAATTCAAAGCAGATCAATGCCCTGTGGGTTTAATttttttaaatcaattttattgagagatgatgtctatttaataaatgtaccctctttgcatgtacagttctatgagttttggcacatatatgtacctatgcagccagtaccctcatccaaatcaggagcacatccactctcctcccagaaagcccctcaggccctgccgagtcagcccccagcccccagcagtcggcttccatcacatgggctgctttttcctgttccagacatcatggatacgaagcagaccctggtttcttttgctcagcagttttgaaacttattcatgatgtacaatagtagattcttctttttttgttcccaagtggtattcctttgcacaaatataccccagtttgtttatgcatttaccttgttgatgcacatttgggttatttcctggtttggggtattacgaataatgctgatgtgaacGAGTTCttcttttttctttttcttttttttttttttgagactctcgttctgttgccccagctggagtgcagtggtatgatctcagctcactgcagcctctacctcttgggctcaactgatcctcccacctagcagctccctagcagctgggactacaggcatgtaccaccacacccggctCAGAGCTAGTTCttttaaatttttttttttaattatttttCTTGTAAAATACAGAAAACACGTCATTTTAGCCATATGTAGGGATACAGTTCAGTGGCACTAGCACTAAACTATAACACAAATACGCACGAGGCCTTCTGAAGGTGTTTCTCTAGAATACACGTGAATCCTTCTGAAGGTGTTTCTCTAGAATACACGAGTCCTTCTGAAGGTGTTTCTCTAGAATATATGTGAGTCCTTCTGAAGGTGTTTCTCTAGAATACACGTGAGTCCTTCTGAGGGTGTTTCTCTAGAATACACGTGAGTCTTTCTGAAGGTGTTTCTCTAGAATATATGTGAGTCTTTCTGAAGGTGTTTCTCTAGAATACACGTGAGTCCTTCTGAAGGTGTTTCTCTAGAATATATGTGAGTCTTTCTGAAGGTGtttctgttcccttaggtagatctaagagtggaattgctgtcatatatgagtgtacgttttaatttataagCTTGCccagcctgggcaacatagtgagaactcgttgctataaacatattgaaaaattagcctggggctgggtgtggtggctcatgcctgtagtctcagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggcagatcacttgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccgtatctctactaaaaatacaaagttagcctggtgtggtggtggtgcttgtggtcccagttacttgggaggctgaggcaggacaatcacttgaacccgggaggcggaggttggagtgagctgagatcatgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagactttgtctcaaaaaaataaataaattagcctggtgtggtgacgcacacttgtaatagtcttagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggaggatcgtgtgagccctggagttggaggctgcagcgagccgtgattgttccgctgcactccagcctgagcagcacagtgagacctgatctcaaaagagaaaactgtttgctcaagcagccccattgtttcatagtcccatcagcaatgcatgagagttccaggtgctccacatctttgccaacatttgatgttgtcagctttccgtcttttaattaatcagctttattgaggtgtaatttgtgtacaaaaaaacccctttaaagtctgcaatacagtgagtgcggacaggcatgccggcctgagaaagcatcaGCCCTCGCAGCCTCGCCCTCTGCAGGCCTCTCACACTCTGCCCCCGGCCTGGCATGTCACTGTGGACTCATCTGCCTTGTCTAGTTttcacgtcaatggagccacacagggcaaactctcctgtgtccggctgccttctttccatgtcttctgggtgagcttcggccacgtggttgagtgcagttgctccctccttccccgcgccgagtggtctcccgtgtgtcaaggctgcagtgcattggctccactccagatgggctttgggatggtttccatgttgggtgactctcacagggctcctgtgaggagtctcagacgcgtttggtcaacacaggtgcccattgctgttgggacgtactgaggagtggaagctgggctgtagggcctgtgtagatgctgccaacccgttctccaaagcagtcacacagtttctgtcccacaggagagagggagagtcctgtttgttctaagtcctGCCTTCCTTTTAGCCATGCTGATGGCTGCAAGCTTGTTTCTTTGTAATAGCCATAGAACATTTCTATTCTGTCAGTAACCATTCCCCAGTGGGTGGATTTTTAGTTTGGATTCAGTTTATTTATAATAAATACAGGGCCGCAATAGATGGCCTTTCTACTCCTTTTCTGTTATTGCTGACACATAGTCCTCTCGGTCCTCAGTCCAGTGTGGGTTTCCCTGGGCTGAAGTCAAGGTGTTGGCTGACACACAGTCCTCTCGGTCCTCAGTCCAGTGTGGGTTTCCCTGGGCTGAAGTCAAGGTGTTGGCTGACACACAGTCCTCTCGGTCCTCAGTCCAGTGTGGGTTTCCCTGGGCTGAAGTCAAGGTGTTGGCTGACACACAGTCCTCTCGGTCCTCAGTCCAGTGTGGGTTTCCCTGGGCTGAAGTCAAGGTGTTGGCTGACACGCAGTCCTCTCGGTCCTCAGTCCAGTGTGGGTTTCCCTGGGCTGAAGTCAAGGTGTTGGCTGACACGCAGTCCTCTCGGTCCTCAGTCCAGTGTGGGTTTCCCTGAGCTGAAGTCAAGGTGTTGGCTGACACACAGTCCTctcggtcctcagtccagtgtgggtttccctgggctgaagtcaaggtgttggccagggctttgctttttgcaggccctacaggaagatgttctcttgctcgttgggaggttggcagaattccgttcttgctggtggtaggactggcagtagcaccttgctgggtgcaagccgagcctttcccggcttctccaggccgcctgcgttgttcacggagggcccttgcccatctgcagagccagcactggcgggtgaagtccctctcatgctttgactctccttctgtctcatctgtagctcagccaggaaaggcggttaaggacttatgtagttaattggccccacccagataatcccggataatctcccacctcgagatccgtgcaccttaatcctgtctgcagagtcccATGCTAGCAACTCAGCAGCAAACAGCCCCTGCACTGTGCCCTGCAGGAACATGGCTGCTGGTGGCAGGCCGGCCCAGACAGACAGACTACCACCTGAGCCAAGGAACCTCCACTCAGGTGGCCGAGGGTCCCACTTCCGAGCCGAGGGTGCTACGCAGGCTCAGCAGCCAGCCTCCCTCGGCTGCCTTACAGCAACTCTGCTGACAGTCCCTGGGCAGATTGGCCTCCATGGGCAGGGGCACAGGTGCCACGTCCACTCCCCAGACCACCAGCACGTTGATGACTGTTGAAAACAAAGTCGCctgggcacggtggctcaaccctgtcatcccagcgctttgggaggccgaggtgggtggataacctgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaaaaaaaattagttgggcatggtggtgggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacatgggaggtagaggttgcagtgagctgatattgcgccaccacactccggcctggacaacgagagtgaaactgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCGGGGggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcgcagcactttgggaggcctaggcgggcggatcacaaggtcaggagatggagaccacggtgaaaccccgtctctaccaaaaatacaaaaaattaggcaggcgcggtggtgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaacccagaaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcaagactccgtctcaaaaacgaaaagaaaagaaaagaaaGTCGCATCTGGTAAAGCAGACAAAAAAGAAAAAGAAAAGAAAACGAAGTCGCACCTAGTAAAGCAAACGCCTCAGTGACATTTTCAGACCCCTTCCTCCCCCTCCACTGCCCGTTTTCAGATTGATGCTGTGAGACCCCCTCTGAAGGGTGCCTGAGTCTGCAGCCAGGCAACGTGCTGTGCCCGTCCCCACCTCCCTCCACACGTTCCTGGGCAGCCTCCACGCCCAtgtactcacctgttctcacgctgctaggaagaaataccccagactgggtcatttgtaaagaaaagaggtttaattgactcacagttccgcatggctgcagaggcctcaggaaatttacagtcatggcggaaggtacctcacacagggcagctccagagagaatgagtgctgagtgaagggggaagcccctcctaaaaccatcaggtgtcgggagaactcactcacccgcacaaaaacagcaggggggaaccacccccatgatttaattatctccatctggccccgccctcaacctgtggggattagtcaaggtgagatttgggcggggacacagccaaatcttatcaCTCCTGAGCCTGCTTAGCTCCCACCTCGTCCTCTGTCCTTTTTTGATCCTGAAGGGCTAGGTGCTGTGCCAAACCTGGGAGGCCCAGGATGCTGGCTTCAGGCTGCCAATCTgtggccctcagcgccatcagacccaggccccttctagacaaatggttgtggcattccctttaccatcctgaaaagaaTGAAACTCggctggccatggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttaggaggccgaggcaggcagatcacttgaggtcaggagttcaagacaagcctagccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctacaaaaaatgcaaaaaaaattagctgggcatggtggcgggcacctgtagtccccactccttgggaggcagaggcacaagaatcacttgaacccagaaggtggaggttgccatgagccaagattgtgctacAATTgtgtggcggctcatacctgtcatcccagcactttgggaggtcaaggtgggcagattgcttgagctcaggagctcaagaccagcctgggcaacacagcgagacccctgactgtacaaaagatacaaaattagccaggtgtggtggtgcacacctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgagctatgaggagcacgtgagcctaggagttggaggctgcagtgagccttggcctcaccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagaacgagacaccttctcaaaaaataaaaataaaaaCGTGGACTGATAGGTGAGAGAGGTTTGATGGTTTGGGAACAGCGGTGCTGCCACGGCTGGGTGAGGGGCCATGCGATCTGCTTGGAATGCCATGTGAGGGGAAGGGGAGGTCAGGGCAGTGCCTGGTGTGGTTCCCAGCAGGGAGCACAGGAGGTTTATTCTCTGGGAAAATTGAGTCGTGGACAGCAGACACCACTGGGGATGGTGGGGGACAGGGTGGCAGGGGACAGGGTGGCCTGAGCAAGCCCCTCCTTGCCTGGGAACTCAGGGCCTCCTGATATGCAGATGGGAGCCCGTGGCAGGATGATGGCAGGATAACCGTCAGCCCAAAAGAAGCGGCCACGAGACGCCGCCGAGAGCCCCAACTTAGAAGCCAGAGTCACCAGCTTCCTGGCTAGGGTCTGTCCTTGAGGGTCACCAGAATGTGAGGAAAGACCCAGACAGGCAGGAAAAGAGCTCAGGGAAGGACATCTTACCATTGGCGTCATCAGagataccgcatccacgaatgaagagccagacgctgccagaggggaacgctcagagcaccggaaggagcttttagaaattataaataagcagcacattttaaaaaagccatagaagggctagaaaagaaagttgaggacatctcccagaaaatagaacaaaaagaGATTAAAAAACAACTGGGCAGTCCCTGCAGAGGTCACCCTGGCTGGCGCGGCTCAGGATGGAGGGCGGGAGCTGTGTGCCTGGAGGGGGGAGCTGAGGCACGTCAGGATGTGTCTCCAGACTGCAAGGGCCACAGAGTACGAAAAAGACCACCCAGAGCAATGTGGTCAAAGACCATGCCTTAAAAGGTTTTAGGAAACAGAATGGGTCCCACGGGAGGGTGGGGATGTGAACGGCACCAGCCTGGTGGCTCGGGTGCCAGGCCAGGGCCAGATGTAGCCTCATACCAGCCCAGCTGGGAGTCCGCTTGCTGAGACTTGGTCTCCTGTAGCTGGTGGGGAAGCGGCACCCTGTGCGGTAGACAGAACCAGCAGCCGAGGCGCCGGTGGCTTTGCTCTGGTGGCAGGACAGGTGTTCTGACCTCCCTGCCTCTGTCCCCTGAGGTCAGAGCGCCTGTCCTGTGGAGCGGCTCTGACCAGGACAGTGCCGTGTGTCTCATGGGGTTGTGTTCAGGTCGGCTGAGAGGCAGCGCCTGGCTGGGGCTAGATGAACAAGAGGGTTATTGGGAACAGTAAACCTGAGGTGGTGAGCAAGGCCTGTGGCACCCAGCAGATGAGGAGGAGAGCAGGGGGAAGGGTGGCAGGAGTTGCTGGTGCTGCGTGAGGCCTCAGTGGGCCTGCACGGAGCAGCTGACCTTCACTGGCGCCCTTGCCTTTTCACTGAGCCGGGTATTAGCTTAGCTTATTTTTGAAAAGACATTTCAACAGGAGGTAAAAATGAACAGCACACCAAGAGAATATGTCACAGCTGATGCCTAGGGACCCCCTTATGGGGTAGTGTTGAGCTCTGCAGCCGGAGCCCACTGCCCCTGCCCCTGCGCCGTCCCCCAGCGCGGGCTCCAGGCCTCTCCTGGGTCACTGCTCTGTGCCTCCAGGAGCTCCTCCCTCTACCCCGCCCTGCCCCACCCCGTCACCTGCTTGCCCTGACCCTGCCTGGATAATTGAGACCTTCCAGGCCAAGGGCCCCCTCCCCAGGATCCTGACACCTGTCCCTCTGAGAGTCCAGACCTTTTCCAGAGTGACATCCTGGGGCCCTGTGTGGTCAGAGGGCTCCATGTGGTCAGTGGCTGTGGCTTGCTGGGAACAAGACACTCGGCTGACTGTGCTTAGAGAACAGGCCGCTGTTTGTGTCTAAATGGTATCCATGGGGACGTTGTTTCATAGTCTTCTTACACTTTTCCTCTTCACTGTTGCTGAGAATCCTGTTCTGACGCGCACCGTGGGCAACCGGGTGCGGAGCCTGCAGGATGGGTGGGACGCAGACGTCCAGCGGGAGGAGCATCCCAGAGCAGCCTCTGATTCAAGAGCAAGGTGCTCTAGAGGCCCCGGCTCTGTGGGTGGGTGACGTGGTCCCCAGGCTTTTCCCGGCATCCCCGTTCCTTTTGCAGCAGCCATGGCTCCTGGTGGCCCTGGGCCATGGCGCCATCTAGGGGTGGCCTAGGGGAGTCCCCGGGCCATCAGCATCTGTCTTGTGGGTGTTGCTGGCGCCTGCCTGCTTGGCCACATTGGCACGTCGAGGTGACCGTCAAGGAGAAGCAGCTATGGCCTTTGTGGCAATCGTGGTGTCCAACTTTGGCCTCTCAGGTCAGCCTCATGGGGGCTTCAACAGCCAGGACCAAAATGACCAAGGCCCCTCCGTCCCTGTGTCCCTGCTTGACAGAACCACCGGAGGAGGGAGGTGCGGGAAGGGTGTTGACGGCCTGAGCGCGGTGCCTCCCTGAAGAGTGTTGTTTCACTTGTGAGTGTGCACGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGAGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGATTCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCTTCGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCACGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCACGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCTTTGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGCATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGATTCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCTTCGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCACGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCACGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCACGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCTTTGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCTGCCCTGGCCTGTAGCATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCTTCGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCACGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCACGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCTTTGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGCATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTCACCTGTAGAATCAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGCATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTGGCCTGTAGCATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCTGCCCTTGCTTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGACAGCCGCCCTCGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGGGACAGCTGCCCTCGTCTTTAGATTGAAGAGCAGGGACTGCCGCCCTCGCCTGTAGAATCAAGAGCAGGACTGCCGCCCTGGCCGGTAGAATCAAGAGCACAGTGCAGCAGCACGCAGCACACTCAGCGGATGGAGGGCCTGGCTTCTGCACGCCGGCTGGCACTTGCTGCCAGTTGCCCTTTTCTGCGAGGCTGGATCGTGGTGCGGTGgtggcttggatgggtttctctgctgaacgatgatgtggaatgccttttcactgcttcttggtcgtcggtttttcttctttggggaaatgtctattcaagtcctttgccctttttttaaagtataatttccgtatttttttccccagaggatagtttgtctttaGTCCTTAAGGACTCAGCTCCTTATGTGGGTCTTAGTGGGAGTCGTGGGCAACACCCAGGTCTAGACCCAGGTGGAATGCATGGTCTTGGGGCCTTGGTGGGGGTCGTGGGCAGCACCCAGGTCTAGACTTGGGTGACGTGCATAGCCCTGGACTTGAGGAGCAGGATTCCTGACTGGCTTGCTGTGAAGGGCACCACTGGGGCAGTGACGCAGCTTCACACGCAGCTCGGGAAGCACACAGTCGGCGCAGATGCTTCCAAAATGTCTGCAAGGCTGCGGCCTCTACTGCATCCAGATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCGCGTCCCGATGGTGAACTGCTAACTCTGCCGTATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCGAACTCTACCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCAAACTCTACCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCTAACTACCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCGAACTCTACCGCATCCCTATGGTGAACTGCTAACTCTGCCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCTCGTCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCACATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCTAACTCTGCCACATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCTAACTCTGCCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCAAACTTTACCTCGTCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAAACCTCGTCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCACATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCTAACTCTGCCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCAAACTTTACCTCGTCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAAACCTCGTCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCACATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCTAACTCTGCCGTATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCAAACTTTACCTCGTCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCTCGTCCCAATGGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCACATCCTGATGGTGAACTGCTAACTCTGCCGCATCCCGACGGTGAACTGCCAAACTCTACCTCGTCCCGACGGTGAACTGCCAAACTCTACCTCGTCCCAGTGGTGAACTGCTAACTCAGCCGCATCCCGATGGTGAACTGCCAAACTTTACCTCGTCCCGATAGTGAACTGCCTAACTCTACCGCATCCTGATGAACTGCTTAATGGCGTTGTCCCTGGGTACACATTGGGTGCAGCTCCTGCAGTCATGGGCTGCTCACAGCCGTGGCCCTTTTGGCACAACCATTGTTCCTTCTTGTCTTGGAAACGAGGACCCGAGGGagaccatccgtccatcctaaaattgggacgtttggttttctgttgttgagttggagttatttgtagagtctagagatcagtctctaggagacgtgtgatctgcagacatttccctccatctctgggttgcatttttctgtccattgatggtgtccttcgaTGCATGAGAACAGCCTTTGATGTACATGTAGGGGTTGGTCAGGCAGAAGGACGGTGTGGGTGGAAGCGCTGATGCCTGAAGAAGGGCACCGTAGGCAGAGAGACCGCATGGCTGGCTTGCAGGGCTGGGCCCGCACGGAGAGACAGATGTGCACAGACACACACACAAGCCCACTGGGCAGGTGCACTCCGTGGGAGGGCGTCGCTTATGTTTAAAAAGTGCCCGTTTCCAAGCCCCTTGGAGAAAGTGTCATAAAAAGACAAAACGTGAATGGTGTTTCTAAGGTGGGGGAAGGGGCTGAGCCCTAAAGGTAGAAGCTTCTGGAAAGTTTCCAGAGGGCCCAGAGCCTGTTTAAGATGTCGTGCCTGCGTTAAGTGTCCAGAACTGTCTGCTCCTTTCAGTTTCTCTTGGACTGACCTTTTCCTATAAAACTGTAAGGAAATAAAAAGTAATGATGTGATGTGggccgggcacggtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggcgaatcacctgaggtcaggaatttgtgaccagcttagccaacgtggcaaaaccccgtctctactaaaattataaaaattagccggctgtggtggtgggcacctgtaatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggaggtggaggttgtagtgacccgagattgtggcactgcactgcagcctgggcgacagagtgagactccatctcaaaaaagaaaaaaaggccgggtgcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggaggctgaggcgggtggatcatgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccacctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattatccgggcatggtggcgggcgcctgtagttcagctactcagcaggctgaggctagataatggcgtgaacccgggagacggagcttgcagtgagcagagatcgcaccactgcactccagcctgggtgactgagcaagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTACCAATGTGGCAGGCAGGCTGGTGGCTGTCTGAGGTCAGTCCAGAGTCCGGAGAAGCAGCATtttatttatttatttatttatttatttatttattGAGTActgtcacccaggcaggagtgcagtgacatgatctcggctcactgcaacctccacctcccagcttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattaaaggtgcccaccaccacacctggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcactgtgttggtcaggctgctctcaaactcccgacctcatgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccAGAAGCAGCATTTTTAAACTTGTTTGGCCCTCCCTAACACCAACCTTGGCAGTTCCTGGGCTGCAGTAAGCCGAGACTTGGAAATACATTCGCCTTGGAGAATTCAACTTCAAAATGCATACGAAGTAGGTCAGGGTGGAAATAAAGGCACTGCCCTTTCTCCAGGCACGCTGGAGTCCACGCCCTGCCTTTGCCCAATGCCCTCTGAGGGAGAGGCCCTGTGCCTTGCACCCAGCGCGGGCCACAGGCGGAGGCCCCATTCCAGGCAAGCCGTGCCCATGGAGAGGCTGGCCTGCTAGGCTGTGGGGCCCGATGGCCTGACACTGTATGGACCACGCTcctgccctgccctgccccgccctgcccGTGGCCCGTGTGCAGAAGTGGGCAGGCCTGGGTTGCTGGGCCAGAGCCCCGAGATTTCCCCCTGCCCCACTGGCTGAGTGTGGGGGAGCTGCTTCTCCACTTCCGCGTGGGTCTTGGCCCTGGGAGGCCAGTGGCCGAGGCTGGTCTCGCGGGCGCTCGCTCCAGGAGTGGCGCGTCCCCTCAGCGCCCTGTGCTTCCTCGCAGGGATCGACTACAAGACCACCACCATCCTGCTGGACGGCCGGCGCGTGAAGCTGGAGCTCTGGTGAGTTGGGGCTGCGGCACTTCAGTTCCTGGGTGAGGACACAAATGCCGAAGGGAGAACAGAACCCTTAGAGAAACAGGAAGGCGTCCTGTTTGCATTTCACTTGGAAGAGCCACTTACACAGCCCCTGTTTAAACATAGAATGGATTTTACTCCAACAGGAAAAAGACAGTCTGGGACACTGTGTCCCTAGAGATCGCGGCTCCCCTCCTGCCCCGGAAAACCTGATTCCGTGGTGGCTGTGAGCCCCTTCCCTCCCCTTCTGTCGGCTTCACCTTAAAAAGCATTTCCCagcggggtgtggtggctcacgcctgtcatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggaggatcacctgaggtcaggagtccaagacaagcctggccaacatggtgaaacgccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagccactcaggaggctgaggcagtagaatcacttgaacccgggaggcagaagttgcagtgagctgagattgcaccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagaatgagactccgtctcaaaaaagaaaaaaaaaaaaGCATTTCCCAGAACGTCAGCGTTGATGAGACGTGAATGTCCACAGGGTTGGGGTTCCCCAGCCTGGCAGGACAGTCTCCTGGAGCTCCCAGGCTCATGTGAGGAGCTTGCTCACTCCCCAGGTGGGCGGGGGCCCCTTCTGCTGCCTGCCTGGCTCAGCGGCACGGCGCCAGGCTGCTGTGACCTGTGCAGACAAAGCCGCTTAGCACAGCCTCATTGGCACCTGTCCTGGCCGCCCCGCTCCCCTCAGGACATCCAGGTGGGTCGGCAGAGGAGGGAAGGAGGTGAGCCTCTCACAGGGACCACAGTCCCGGCCCCTCCCCTCCCCGTATGTTTCAGGGACACGTCGGGCCAGGGCCGGTTCTGCACCATCTTCAGGTCCTACTCCAGGGGCGCTCAGGTAAGACCAGCACCGCTCTTTCCATTGCTTTTCAAAGGATGTTTCTCCTGATTCTTTCTGAATGTGAGTTGTTGTCCTGTCAAACTCCCAAGGACTTTCTTTCTTTATAAGGATATTCTCACATTGGtttgtttatttgtttgttttgagacagagactcactctgtcacccaggctggagtacagtggcacagtctcggctcactgcagcctccccctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctccccagtagctgggagtacaggcgcAGTGGGTGTACTTGGAGCTGTGTGTGTGCACAGGTGTAGTGGGTGCACTCAGGGCCATGTGTGTGTGCAGCCATGTGCACAGGTCTGGCGGGGGCACTGGGGCCATGTGTGCAGTGTGTGCGCAGGTGTGGTGTACTTGGAGCTGTGTGTGTGCACAGGTGTAGTGGGTGCACTCAGGGCCATGTGTGTGCAGGCATGTGCACAGGTCTGGCGGACGCACTGGGGCCATGTGTGCAGTGTGTGCAGGTGTGGTGTACTTGGAGCTGTGTGTGTGCACAGGTGTAGTGGGTGCACTCGGCCATGTGTATGTGCAGGCATGTGCACAGGTCTGGCGGGGGCACTGGGGCCATGTGTGCAGTGTGTGCTCAGGTGTGTACTTGGAGCTGTGTGTGTGCACAGGTGTAGTGGGTGCACTCAGGGCCATGTGTGTGCAGGCATTTGCACAGGTCTGGCGGACGCACTGGGGCCATGTGTGCAGTGTGTGCAGGTGTGGTGTACTTGGAGCTGTGTGTGTGCACAGGTGTAGTGGGTGCACTCGGCCATGTGTGTGTGCAGGCATGTGCACAGGTCTGGCGGGGGCACTGGGGCCATGTGTGCAGTGTGTGCTCAGGTGTGGTGTACTTGGAGCTGTGTGTGTGCACAGGTGTAGTGGGTGCACTCAGGGCCATGTGTGTGTGCAGGCATGTGCACAGGTCTGGCGGGGGCACTGGGGCCATGTGTGCAGTGTGTGTGCAGGTGTGGTGTACTTGGAGCTGTGTGTGTGCACAGGTGTAGTGGGTGCACTCAGGGCCATGTGTGTGTGCAGCCATGTGCACAGGTCTGGCGGGGGCACTGGGGCCATGTGTGCAGTGTGTGTGCAGGTATGGTGGGTGCGCTTGGCCACCCTCGTTTCTGTCTCCTCTGGGCCCCCAAGCACGCTTTTGTGCTGACTGGATCTGCTGGCGAATGTGAGGCCGGAAGGAGGGCAAGGACGTGAAGCCCATGTAAACAGACCTGTCATGGCCACTGTTGTTGCTGCTTCAGTGGGAGGGATTTGAGCGGGTCTGTCCTGTCTGTGATGCCCCTAAGAGTTCTGGAAGAGCCAGGAGAGCCCCTCCGGGGCCAGTTCGTGAGCCTGGAGCCCCCCATGTGGGCCCAGGGAGGCCGCCTGGGTCTGGGTCTGGATCCTTCTTGGGGGAAGGTTCAGGTCTGTGCCATGCAGCTTCTGGCTCAGGTGGGTCCGCTCTGGGCAGGAAGCTGCCCAGGTGCGAGGGGGATGGACACTGGAGCTTCGTCCCATGGCAAGCTCATTTCCTTCCATTTCTACACTGAAGTGTAGTCGGTGTTGGATCTGATGTCTTCTACCTGCTGGCGGTGGGTGGGAAGGACGCCAGGGCGGGCTGGGTCGCACCCTGTCCTGGGAGTTCCCTCGGAGATGTTGGCAGCTCCCTCATGGGAGCAGAAGGGCCTGCAGGCTCCGTGCCATCCCTGTGAGAACTGGAGCAACATGGCCGTGATTCGTGGAGCAGGCAGGTGGAAGACGGGCAGGCTCAAGGATGCATTCCATGGGCCCTGCCTGCTATTGAAAGAGGAGTTGGGGCTggtgcggtggttcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcagacagatcacgaggtcaagagttggagaccaacctgaccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctacgaaaaatacaaaaattagccgagcatggtggcgggcgcttataatcccagctacttaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggtggaggttgcagtgagccgagattgtgccattgcacgccaacctgggcgacgagtgaaactccatctcaaaaaaaaaGGAGGAGCTGTGTGGGTGATTTACATCTACAAAAATGCCTTCTTGTCTTCCTTTTGCTTTTAAGTATTTCGTGATTTTTCTGCAATAAACATATACTATTTTGGTATTAAAAAATATGGGGCGCAGTTATGTTGGATGACAATAAAGGGTTGTTGGGGAGATACTGGAAAAGGCAGCAGGGAGGCTGAACCTGACAGGCTCCACTGCGGGCATCCCAGCCCCCCCCGACGGGCTCCACCGCGGGCATCCCAGCCCCCCCCCGACGGGCTCCACCGCGGGCATCCCAGCCCCCCCCGATGGGCTCCACCGCGGGCATCCCAGCCCCCCGCCGACGGGCTCCACCGCGGGCATCCCAGCCCCCCGCCGACGGGCTCCACCGCGGGCATCCCAGCCCCCCGCCGACGGGCTCCACCGCGGGCATCCCAGCCACCCCCCCCGACGGGCTCCACCGCAGGCATCCCAGCTCCCACACAGGGAGGTCTGTGGGACACGAGGCCAGTACAGTCGTGATTTCTGTTCAGCTGCATGAGAACTAAAAAAGAAAAAAGCAGTTCATAAGCTCTGCATTTGCCAGGCTGAGGTCCTGGAAAGCAAGCTCTGTTATCATCTCCGTGTTCTTTCCAAAGCATCTGGCACAACTGGTTATGTCTTTGTTTTGTCTTGTTAACTCTGGAAATTCTGAGCTGTCATTTTCCACATGCGAGGAGCAGGTTACAGACCCAGGTGCACATGTTGGTCCTGGGTTGAGGGTGCCAGGTGCTTCCTTGCCCCGGGAGAAGCACCTGAGTCTCCAGGCGGGCCTCTGACCGCCGTGACTGAGCATTTGGGCCACCCCGGGAGCCCAGCCCTGTCCTGTGTCTCTCCTGCCTGGTGAGCAGCGGTGAGGTGCGGGTGCATCCAGCCGAGGTGCAGAGCCCAGGTTTGCAGCAGGGTTTCTCCCGCCGCCCCTGATGAGACACAGACTAGCAAGGACTGTCTGTCCCAGCCGGGATTTGTCACTCTGCCTCCCTCCGTTAGAGAGTGGAGAGGCCTGGAAGGTCCCCGCGGCCTGGGTCTTGCAGATGGCACCAGCAAAGGCCACCGGCCACTCCCCGCTGCCGTCACCTGTCACACAGCAGCAGTCCCGCGGCTCTTCCCGCGAGGCCCTTCACGTGCCGCCGAAGGCCGGGCTCCCTAGACTTCATGGTCGTGTTTGCATATTCTGTTGCTGTGATCTGAGACGGCCCCTCTCAGAAGCGGGTGCCACAACCCGCTGGTGGGATGAGTGGGTCACCCAGGTGCAGGTCCCTTGGTGTGTGGAGGGTGGGGTAGGCTCCTTGTAACTGCAGTGTGGCTGACGGGATGTGCCATCCTGTTTAGCTGAGAATTTGGGGTCAGCGGGCTTAGTGCCAGGAAGGCTGTGGCCAAGTGCCATGTCTGCTTCAGGACAAAGGTGTGGATTTGTTTCCCTGAGAGGGGGTTTATGTGGAGCGTGGTACGGGAGGCACACGTGCTGCTGGCTTGTCGGCACACAGGTGGGCGGGTGGATGTGAGTGGGCGCGGCTTGGCAGTAGCTCCCATTTTACATGTCAGTTGCTCCTGGGCAGAGCCTGGGTGCAGGGATGCAGGAGGAGGGCTTCACTCTCGCTGGCTGTACCTTGGGAGCTTCAGCCACATGGGTGGAAGGGGCATGTGTTTGTCAAAATTCATCAAAATGTTCAAACCTCGGATCTTTGTATTTTGTGCTTTGTAAGTTACAGCTCAGTAAAAAATGATAGCAAAAAGGAcacccactcttaggcccagcagttctacttctgggaatttatcgtgtaggtCGAGTTGATCAAAAAAAGGTGTAAACGTGCTCAGATGCATATTGCCACCGTTACCCAAGAGCTGGCGCAGTACCAGTTCACGAGCAGGCGGGGGTGCTGGGCCTGAGCTCAGGGCGTGCGGGTGGGAGCAGCGCCAAGTGCCTCCACCCCCTTGACCCCGCCCGCGAGGCATGAGCGGCACCGTGGACACGTCTGTAGACGCTGAGGAAACTGACTGTCAGGGCGGCTCCTAGAGGGGCCTAGAGCAGGGCGAGCGCGCGTCCTGACTCATCCCCTAGAGCACTCGCTCGttcttttgttttgttttttgagacacggtctggctctgtcgccaggctggagtgccgtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcaggctcccgagtagctagaactaggtgtgcaccaccgcgtccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggccaggatggtctccatctcttgacctcgtgatccgcctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggatcgcaggcgtgagccacggcgcctggccGAAGTCGCTAGTTTTTTAAAAATCAGATCAGTTTTAGAAAACAGAAGGCAGTGGAAGAGTCTGTTTGTCCCGTGCTCTGCCCCTTGAGACACGCAGCTGAGGGTGCTTAGGGTGCCGTTCGTTAGGCGGCTGCTGGTCACCGAGAGTCTCCTTTTGGTTTCTCACTCCGTGGTCATTTGGGTCCCTGCGGCCTCACTGTGACCCACGCCGGAGCAAGCCTCCGGGTCCTCCTGTGCCATCGCCCCTGCCCGTAACCCCTACTCCTCAGACATGGCCATCCCAGGAAGTGGGGGCCCGCTCAGGGCAGCAGCCGGGAGGTGTGGCCAGGGCCCCCCGCGTCACAGCACACTTGGAGCCTGAGGCAGCCCATCAGCCGGGAGGCGGGCCTTCTGCTCTCTTTCTAGAGTTTTCAGTGTCATGCGAATAGGGGTGTTTGCCACAGAAAACAGGTCAGCATCAAAAGTTACCCCTCTCCAGCCTTTTAGCATTTGTTTTATGTCCATATAAACTTCTTCAGTGTAATGTGTTGTGTGTTCATACTTTTATTTTTTAAAAATCATGCTGggccgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtcatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggcagatcgggaggtcaggagatcaagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaaaaaatacaaaaaaattagccgggcatggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggagactgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccggaagcggagatcgtgcggctgcactccagcctgggcgacagagtgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaTCATGCTGggctgggcacagtggctcacacctctgatcccagcactttaggaagttgaggcaggaggatcacttgaggccaggggttcaagaccagcctgggcaacatagcaagatcccatctctaaaaaatgtttaaaaaaacttagccagatgtggtggttcacacctgtattcccagccactcaggaagctgaggctcagaatatcaggctgcagtgagccatgatcgtgccactgcatgaaccccagcctggctgacagagtgagaccctgtttcaaaaaaaaagaaaaTGCCATCCGCAGTGCTGGGACCTGCGTTCTTACCTCACCTGGGTTGCACATCTCTCCTTGGCCAGCATGCACGCTTTTACATGCACTGCTGCTGTCTTCAGCATCTGCACGGTACATTTCACTGCCGCTTACTCAGCTGTCCCCTGAGGCTGGACATTTAATTTGTGTCTGGCTTGTCGTTGTTATCAGCGCCACTGTGACACACATCCTCAGTTACTTCTGAGTTGTGGGCTTGCCATGCGGGAGGTTGCCATGCGGGAGGTTGCCACTAGGGAGAGTGGGCTGTGTTGTACGCTTTGGTGGCCCACTCCCCAGTCTCTCCACCTCCCCCAGCAGCAAATGAGCCAGCCCCAGTCCCTGTGCCCCAACCTCCAGGGTTAACCCCTGGGTGTGCATTTGTTTATTCTGAATCTTATCATTTATCGCCCACCAGACTGACTTGGCCATCTCTGGCCTCGAAGGGTCTCCCTCAGCGAGAGGTGTCCTTCCTGAGCTGTCGCTCCATCCTGAGCAAGGCCTTCGCCCTGGGAGCTTAGTAATGTCAACCTTGTTCTAAACAGGACCTGGGGCTACACTTCAGTCTTCCAGATATCGAAAGATGGTTCTAAGAGGCTCTAAAAACCCTAATTTTCAGATGGACAGTGCCCTCTTCTTTCAGCCTCAGCCTCTTGTGTGATAGGCTCTTCCATTACGTGAAGGTTTTGTCAGCCTAGGAGTAGGGTGGATCACAGCTCATTGGCTGGATCTGGTTGCAGAATTGTAGGGTGGGAGTGGACGTTGGGGAGAGGCGGGCATAGGGGAATGGGCCTGTGATGTCACCGTTTCGCCCGACAGGGCTCTGAGTGTGAGCAGTGTGCTCCCCTGTGCTGCTGGAGAGCCATGACTGTCACTGCCGAGATATTTAGGGCAGGTGGAAACAGCCCAGAGCTGAGCTCCAAGTAATTGGTCTCTAAGGGATGTGGCAAAAAGTCCCCGTGGCAAAACCTGCTCTGCCTGGCTGGGGGAGCTTCACAGAAACTGTCCTGGAGGGACTGGCATTCTGCTCTGCAAGTTTTAGGTTGGAAAACTCAGAAATGCCCCCACTCAGCTCTGTCCCAGGTACTCCCGGGGGGATTCACTGATGGACTGGCCGAGAGGACACTTAGCTTCCACAGCTGCACGTCCCCCGGCTGCCAGAACCCCGCATCTGCCTGCCCAGGAAACTTCCACAGGCTGATGGCTCCAGGGGAGGGAGGGGAAGCGGCATTTCTGACACCATGGAAGGCGCCCACCCCCCTGCTGCAGTCCTGCCAGGTGAGGGCAGGGGTGAGGGGCAGGGCTGCACCAGCTCTGCCTGGAGGGCATGGCTCATCTGCCCATCCGCCAAGTAATAAGCATCCTTGGCCCTGCCCGGGAACTGAGGCCCCTGCACCTGAGCGTCCCTGGGCCTGGGCTGGCCATGCGTGTCAGTGACCCCTGATGACCCCCAAGTCTCTGTTGCAGGGGATCCTCTTGGTGTATGACATCACCAACCGCTGGTCCTTTGACGGCATCGACCGCTGGATCAAGGAGATCGATGAGGTAGGCCTGGGTCCGGGGAGCCCTCCCGGGGAAGGCAGGCTGGATGGAGGTACCTGGGCCCCGGGTAGGCTCTGGATTCCCGCCTGCCGCCCCTCCTGTGGCCCCGGCTCTGCACCCTGCACTGTCCCACGGCCTACGCCTGGGCATGCTGGTCACTGTGCACACGACAGTCGGGCGTGGAGCCCAGCAAGACCAGGAGCTACGGGGCCACCCGGAAGGGCTGCACTGTAGGGCCTGAGCCCTGGGGTCTGCCCACCTTGACCTCCGCCCACCTTGACCTCCCACGGCCCTCACCCCATCATAGTCCAGACAATGAGGGCGGGCCCTGCTGCGGCTGAGGGGTGGGTGGCACCCTGCGTTTGTGCGTCTGCTGAGTTCTGTGCCCCCAGCATGCACCCGGAGTCCCCCGGATCTTGGTTGGAAACCGGCTGCACCTGGCCTTCAAGCGGCAGGTCCCGACGGAGCAGGCCCGCGCGTACGCAGAGAAGAACTGCATGACCTTCTTTGAGGTCAGCCCCCTGTGCAACTTCAACGTCATCGAGTCCTTCACGGAGCTATCCCGCATCGTGCTCATGCGGCACGGCATGGAGAAGATCTGGAGGCCCAACCGAGGTGGGTGGGCGGGCGCCGGCCAGCCCTGAGGTCCCCGAACCTGGGCTGCCCTGATCACATGGAGGCTGAGGGGGGCCAGGGGCCAGTGAGGGAGGTTCAGGCAGGTCCCTTGGCAACGCGCAGTAGGGGCTCGGCCGGCGGCAGGTCAGTGACTTGGTAAGAGCAGCCTCGGGGGAGAGGCGGCAGCACTGGGGGGCACAGGAGCAGCTGATGACCCCCCCTCAGGGTGCCGCCGTGGCCGCTGCACTCTGCCATGCCTGTGGGTCCCTGGCATTGCTGGTGTGGGCAGTGTGTGCTCGCTCCTTCCTGGTTCCGGGGCTGGTCCTGCTGTCAGGGGAGCACAGGAGCCGTGCCTGCAGCTTTGTGTTGTGTCATCTGCTCTTCCTGGGTAGCCACATCCTTGATCAGAGGCTCCCGTGAAGCCCCCCTCAGGGAGGTGGTACTGTTGATTTTGTGGTGCCTCCCAGCAGGGTTCACTGCTGAACAGAGAGAGGGTGGCTGACGGTGTCACTGTCCTTCTTAAGAGGAAGCACGggcctggcacggtggctcactcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccacagcaggtggatcacctgaggtcaggacttcgagaccagcctggccaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattaaccgggcgtggtgacgcacacctgtagtcccagctattcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggcggaggttgcagtgagcggagatcgtgccacggcactccagcctggcgacagagcgagacccgtctcaaaaaacaaaacaaaagaaTGAGCGAGTGCTCTAGGGAATGAGTCAGGACGCGCGCTCCCCCGCTCTAGGGGATGAGTCAGGACGCTTGAAGGGCCAGATCACGCAGCCCTCACACTGGGAGCTGCATCATCCAGGCCAGGAACTGGGCAGAGTGCCCTCTGGAAGCCCCGCAGCAGCACCGCCCAGCGTGCCTGGCTTTAGGGAGCAAGGCAGGGGATGGGGTGCCAGTGGACACATCTGTGCTGGGCAGAGAAGTTTGGGCGTCCAGGTCCTCCAGGAGCCCAGCCTGGGAACACCTCTAGGAGTGTGGAGACCCCGCCAGGCTTCTCTTGGGCACCTCAGGTCTCCCTGCACAGGGCCTCCTCCCCCACAGCCCCATGGTCTGACACCCCCTCTGCCCCACAGTGTTCAGCCTGCAGGACCTCTGCTGCCGGGCCATCGTCTCCTGCACCCCCGTGCACCTCATCGACAAGCTTCCACTGCCCGTCACCATCAAGAGCCACCTCAAGTCCTTCTCGATGGCCAACGGCATGAACGCGGTCATGATGCACGGCCGTTCCTACTCCCTGGCCAGCGGGGCCGGGGGCGGCGGCAGCAAGGGCAACAGCCTCAAGAGGTCCAAGTCCATCCGTCCACCCCAGAGCCCCCCCCAGAACTGCTCGCGGAGTAACTGCAAGATCTCCTAGCGGGGATGGGCGGGGCCGCCTGTGCAGATGCCAGGAGGGCTCGAGCTGGACACTCCTGGCTGGACGCCAGGCCAGTGCCGCCTACGTGGAGACTGTCCACACAGCTGCCTCAGAAGCGCCGGGCTTTCCTCACACCTGAGCCGGGTGCGAGGAGGAGCATGCACGGACCAAGCGCGGCAGGCGGGAGGAGGGGGCGCGGCTGGGCTGCTGGTGCTTCCGGGAATCTTGGTCGGAAACAAGCCGGGCCTCCCCAGCTGCCTGGGCTTGACCGGCGGGGAGCCTGGTTGGCCTTTCTTATTTATATAGAGAACACTTCACTTTTTTGTACATTTTTAAGGGGCCTTCAGGGAAGCCTGGGTGTGGCCCGGTGGTGGTGCACTGGTGACTTCATGGCCACGCCAGCTGCGGGGACGCACTTGGGACTCCTCGAGAGGGGACTCGCGGCCGCGATGGCAAGGCATCCTGTGAATTCATGCGCTGCGAGTGGCGGGGCTGCCCAGAGGCCGGGGGAGCAGACAGGGCCGGTGCTCCCTCTGGAAGCTTGGGTGACCGGGGCCCTGGCTCCCACGGGATGGAGGGTGTGGTCCTGTGGTCAGAGCCCAAGCAGCACTCAGGAGAGGGGAGAAAGGAGGTGCACCTGGCAGCCCACATTTTTGTTGCTCCCCAAATCCCTCCCCACGTGGGGATGAGAACCTTCCTGCTGTGATGTGACACCTTCGGGGACATTGACCACTCAAAACTCAGATCATCTCGCCCACCCTGGAGAGTGCAGAGCTATCTGTAGACTTAGGAATACTTGATGGGCAGCGGTGCAGACCCCGGGCACCTGCGTGCAGCCTCCTGTTCTCGGCAGCTTCTGTCGCTGGCCCTGGGGTCCCCACAGCTGCAGCTCTCCTGTGAGGTTGCACGGCATCAGAACCATCCTGACCTTCTTAGGGACGTGCCTGGAACCACCTCGTCCACGTCCACGTCCACCTGGGGGCCTCGGGAGGCTAGGCCCCTCCTCAAAGGCCCACCAGCCCGGCGCTCATGCTGAGCCCCAGGCACGCAGGGCCGGCCACCTCTCTCCTGAAGCCATTGGCCGCTCCTCCACCCAGTGCTTCTGCCCATGCCTGCCCCAGCAGCCCCTCTGCACGGTCACCATCGCCTGGGCCTGCCCACAGCACTGGTGCTCACCTCTACCTCCTGTCCTCAGGCCGTGCGGCACGACATGGCCAGCACGCAGAAGGAGCCCTCCCGGGACCCAGGACCCCCCGTGGTGGACTCCGCGGCACATGCTTCCCAAGGTGGTCCCACGGAGGGTGTTACTGGGCACCAGTGGACTCGCCCCATGGCCCGTTCCTGGGAGATGAGGGCCGTGGCCTGCATGAACTACCAGATGAGTAAGGGAACCCCAGGCAGGCGGCCCTGCCACAGCCCCCAAAGACACTGGCCTCCTGCTCCAGCTTCCCTGTCCTGGCCCCACCTGTCCTGTTGCTGCCAGCAGGGCCCTTGTTTGGGATTATGAACAAACCTCACAGACTTTGAGGACCTGGATGGTCCTGCATTCACGGCATCAACACTACCCGCGCTGCTGTTAGACACTCCGCCATTCCTGGTTCTCTCCGAACCGTTCTTTGTACAGTAAATGTAATTCAGCTGTGGTCCCCACGTTTTGCTGTGTCTGGTGGGGTGGGTCTGGCAGTGGCGGTGCCCCGTGCCAGGGGCCAGTGCTGCTTCATACCCGGCAAACTGACCTCTGGCCTTTGTTTTGCCTGCTGTTCCCTGCGCTGACCGGGCTGACCTGCCGCGGTTGGCTGGGTTCGCCTCAAAGTGAGGGCTGGAGCTGGGCTGGAGCAGCTGGGCCTGGTCACGGCCATTCTCCTCTTCCCGGTGGATGGAATCCCAGCTGGGCTGTGCTGAGCCCTCGCTCACAGTCCCCGGCAGCAGATGGCCTGGGGCGGACTGTCCCCAACAGCAGCAGGACTCCAGAGGGCCAGGTCCTCCAGTCAGTCGGCCCGCTCAGCAGAGCCGCCTGCACGCTGGCCAATCTGGTGTCTGCTATGCCCGGCCCAGGGGGGTGTGGACGCCCCGGAGGTCACAGCTGAGCTGGAACGGGGCACTCCAGTTGGTACAGGGACCAGACCACAGCCTCTGGCTCAGGTGCCTCCCTGTGCTGTTTCGTGGGCATGTCCGGGCCTTAAGCCCCTCCTTGGCAGCTCCAGCCCAGCCGCCTGCTGCTGGGTCTGGCCTAGCTACCCCCACCCCCACGCTATCAGGGCCCACCCCCAGTCTCCTTGTAGAGCAGGGACTGGCGCCTGGAGCCGTCTCCGGGTCTCATTCTGACCAGACCAGGCTCCTGTTACCCTGCCTCCTGGGTCAGAGGTCAGACACAGGGTCAGGGGGACACTCCCATCCGGTCTCAAGAGAACCACTCCCTGAGGCCCCAGACATCTGGAGCCACAGAGGGTTTGGAAGGGTAGATTCCAGGCAGCCTTTTGTCCTGCTGCACCAGGCAGGCCAGCCCCCTGCCCTCCCCAACGAAGAGGAGCCAGCCTGGGGATGTGTGCCCCGCCGACGGGGGGCTGGGGCAGGGCAAGGCTCTGGTGCCCTGGGACACTTGCTCTTTTCAGCTGCAGACGCCCTTGCACTTGGCCTTCCCTCGGGCGGTGCCATCCCACGCGGAGCCACGTCCAGGGCTACACGGTGCGTGGGCCGAGGCTCCGGCATCAGCGTTTCGGGCTGTTCTTATGCTTGTGGTGGCCACAGGCCTCTTCCTGCTGCACCTGCCCCGCCTTGGGGACAGGCCTGAGCCCCAAGCCCGCTGCCTGGTTTCAGGGATGGGGTCTCTGGGAATGCAGTCCTGCCGGGTTGGGCCCCACTCCAACAGGGGCAGCAGAGCAGAGGAGGCCGGGCTGTGCTGGGCGTCCTGCAGACCCCTGTGCCCCTGAAACAGCCATGGAGGGGGGAAGGAACCTCGGAGCGGAGTGAAGCCCTCGGCCGCACGTGACCGTTGCCAGCCTGGACCTGGCCCGGGGGACCCAGGCTGTGGTCAGCCACGCTCTGCGGGGAGGGCCCGTGCCTGCCACCCCCATGGCATAGGAGCCTGGGGTCCAGAGGGCGCCAGGGACAAAAGCTGGGATCTGCTGGCCCTGCCCCCACCCTACTGAGGGTCGTCAAGGAGATTGATCTCAGCCCAGGGGTGGACGAAGGGGTTCAGGTTACAGGGTCCCCTCCCCTCCCCCTCTCCAGCCAGAGCCAGCCCTTCCCCGCCCCGGTGACCCTCATGGCCAGTGGCTCTGTGCTCATGGGCCTCTGGCCCCTCCCCAACCTCCTCCCCTCTGCCCTGTGCTGACCAGGGCCTGGGAGCCCCCGCACGGTTCAGACAGAGGGGCCAGGCTGAAGCTGGAGAGGAACCAGCGTCACACAGACGGCCTCTGAGAACTTGGAGACCCCGTTACCCACCCAGCAGGGGTGTCAGGACAAGCATCTGCTGCAGGCTTCAGCCTCAGGGGCAAAAGGGAGCCCCGGGGTCCTGGTGGGGGCACCGACCACAGGCCCGGAGGGTGGATGCCTGCAGGAAGCTGGGCTCTGTGGAGCCCGAGGAGGGGCTGGTGGCCACACCCCCCGGCCCCCTGGCTCGGCGGCCCTCATGCCCGCCCTACGTCCACTCCTGCCGCTCCTGCTCCTCCTCCGGCTGACCTCGGGGGCTGGCTTGCTGCCAGGGCTGGGGAGCCACCCGGGCGTGTGCCCCAACCAGCTCAGCCCCAACCTGTGGGTGGACGCCCAGAGCACCTGTGAGCGCGAGTGTAGCAGGGACCAGGTGAGTGTGGTCGGGCCGGGGTCCTGGGGCTCAGAGCAGCCAGCCTGGGCAAGACCCTGCTGGAGGTGCCACCTTCTGCCTGGGCTCCCCAGACTTCTGGGGGGTCTGGGTCTGGGCCCCTTAAGGGGCCCAGAGACACCCCCATCGTTGCCCTCATTTGTCTTAAGAATAAGAGCCCTCCCCACTCCAGCTTTCATGCTCCCCATGTGCCTCCACCCTGGGGCACCATCATCCTCGGCGACCACCCCCACCCCGTCACTGcctctcctcccaccctctcctcccaccctctcctcccatccacttctcccaccccttcactgcctctccttccatcctctcctcccaccctctcctcccatccactcctcccatccacttcttccatcctcttctcccaccccgtcactgcctctccttccatcctctcctatccactcctcccatccacttcttccatcctcttctcccaccccatcactgcctctccttccatcctctcctatccactcctcccatccactttttccatcctcttctctcaccccgtcattgcctctccttccatcctctcctcccatccacttctcccaccccttcactgcctctcctcccaccctctcctcccatccactcctcccatccactcctcccatccacttcttccatcctcttctcccaccccgtcactgcctctccttccatcctctcctcccaccctctccttccatcctctcctcccaccctctccttccatccactgtcctcccTGTCCTCCCACCCTCCTTCCATCCGGGACCAGTGCAGATGGTGGTGGGGGTGCTGCAGCCGATGTCCAGCCTTTGtcctggcccgcaccacctgctgggtggtcctgagcactgtacgccctccttgggcctcagtttcctcgtctgtacaacgtaaagaataacggaacttgcttgtgggtgtgaggattctggaaggtaagccaggtggcacctctggcgaggtggctcctcacacagGATGGAAAGGACACTGAGTCCCCGGGGAGGCAGCCACAGAGCGGGGGGCTCCCTGCTACCCCACCTGGGCCTCCCCTTGCAGGGGCCAGGCCAGAGCCCCGGGGCGGGGGGCATTGGGGCTCCCACCTAAGTGTCCCCCATCCCCAGGACTGTGCGGCTGCTGAGAAGTGCTGCATCAACGTGTGTGGACTGCACAGCTGCGTGGCAGCACGCTTCCCCGGCAGCCCAGCTGCGCCGACGACAGCGGCCTCCTGCGAGGGCTTTGTGTGCCCACAGCAGGGCTCGGACTGCGACATCTGGGACGGGCAGCCCGTGTGCCGCTGCCGCGACCGCTGTGAGAAGGAGCCCAGCTTCACCTGCGCCTCGGACGGCCTCACCTACTACAACCGCTGCTATATGGACGCCGAGGCCTGCCTGCGGGGCCTGCACCTCCACATCGTGCCCTGCAAGCACGTGCTCAGCTGGCCGCCCAGCAGCCCGGGGCCGCCGGAGACCACTGCCCGCCCCACACCTGGGGCCGCGCCCGTGCCTCCTGCCCTGTACAGCAGCCCCTCCCCACAGGCGGTGCAGGTTGGGGGTACGGCCAGCCTCCACTGCGACGTCAGCGGCCGCCCGCCGCCTGCTGTGACCTGGGAGAAGCAGAGTCACCAGCGAGAGAACCTGATCATGCGCCCTGATCAGATGTATGGCAACGTGGTGGTCACCAGCATCGGGCAGCTGGTGCTCTACAACGCGCGGCCCGAAGACGCCGGCCTGTACACCTGCACCGCGCGCAACGCTGCTGGGCTGCTGCGGGCTGACTTCCCACTCTCTGTGGTCCAGCGAGAGCCGGCCAGGGACGCAGCCCCCAGCATCCCAGCCCCGGCCGAGTGCCTGCCGGATGTGCAGGCCTGCACGGGCCCCACTTCCCCACACCTTGTCCTCTGGCACTACGACCCGCAGCGGGGCGGCTGCATGACCTTCCCGGCCCGTGGCTGTGATGGGGCGGCCCGCGGCTTTGAGACCTACGAGGCATGCCAGCAGGCCTGTGCCCGCGGCCCCGGCGACGCCTGCGTGCTGCCTGCCGTGCAGGGCCCCTGCCGGGGCTGGGAGCCGCGCTGGGCCTACAGCCCGCTGCTGCAGCAGTGCCATCCCTTCGTGTACGGTGGCTGCGAGGGCAACGGCAACAACTTCCACAGCCGCGAGAGCTGCGAGGATGCCTGCCCCGTGCCGCGCACACCGCCCTGCCGCGCCTGCCGCCTCCGGAGCAAGCTGGCGCTGAGCCTGTGCCGCAGCGACTTCGCCATCGTGGGGCGGCTCACGGAGGTGCTGGAGGAGCCCGAGGCCGCCGGCGGCATCGCCCGCGTGGCGCTCGAGGACGTGCTCAAGGATGACAAGATGGGCCTCAAGTTCTTGGGCACCAAGTACCTGGAGGTGACGCTGAGTGGCATGGACTGGGCCTGCCCCTGCCCCAACATGACGGCGGGCGACGGGCCGCTGGTCATCATGGGTGAGGTGCGCGATGGCGTGGCCGTGCTGGACGCCGGCAGCTACGTCCGCGCCGCCAGCGAGAAGCGCGTCAAGAAGATCTTGGAGCTGCTGGAGAAGCAGGCCTGCGAGCTGCTCAACCGCTTCCAGGACTAGCCCCCGCAGGGGCCTGCGCCACCCCGTCCTGGTGAATAAACGCACTCCCTGTGCCTCAGACCTCCTGGCTTGCTGCTGCTGGTCGGGCGACCCTCATCCTTCCAGGTGCCCCATGCCCAGCCAGTTTCCGCTGGGGCCTTGACACCCACTGGGGCTTGGGCTTTGGTACAAGGTCACCAGGGAGTGCCTGTCCGCCCCTGCATCCCCAACCAGCTCCATCCTGCCTCAGCAGCTGTCTCGGCCCCAATCCCACTGCCCGAGCTCCAGCAGCAAGGATCAGGACGTCCCAAGCCCTTGACCCCACAGGAGACCCCGTCTCCCACCCAACCTCACAAGGTGCTCCTAGGAGGAGGTGGGGCAGACACCAGCAAGCCGGCAGCAGGACATGCTTTATTCTGAGCAGGCTGGGCCCTTCGGCCAGCGGCTGAGAGCACAGACTGGGTGGGGCTGTCGTCCACAAGGTCCGGCCTAGGGAGGCAGGGTTCGTGCCTCACAGAGCCTCCGGCAGGGATGCAGGTGTGCGGGGGTGAAGGAGGGGCTTAGTTTTTCCGGAAGATCAGGCATTTGTTGTTGGCTGGCATGTCCACCTGGAGAAACACTTTGCTGGAGGACGGCCCTCAACCCCTAGAGAGGTTGCCTGGGCCCCCGCTCCCCCACCTACCATCCTCTCCAGGAGCAGGCCACTGGCCTTTCCCAGGTCCTCCAGGAGGGCTGTGTCCCGAAGCCCCCATTCTGGGTTCCTGCAGAGGGTGGGGAGATGGAGTCATGGCCTGGGGGGTGCCACCCAAGCCACCTGCCACCTGAGCCAGACCCCCCGCCTCTAGCTCTGACCTGCATCTGAGCATCAGGTCAAAGTCCACGTTGCTCTGGGGGGAGATCTTCCCATTGATGGCATAGGGCTGTGGGCATGGGGACACAGCCCACTGGACCAAGGTCGGGGTATTTCCCAGAGAGCCTGGGACAGACTTGCAGGCTGGGGTTTGGAGAATGAAAGGGCACCCCCTCCCTGTCCCCAAGAGGGAGTCAGCCAAGGCCAGCCTGGTGGGCAAGGGGGTAGGGAGGCTGGCAGATGACCCAGGGAGGGGTACAGACTGGAAGTGGAGGGGAGGCCGTGCTGGTGGCTGGGCGGGGGGCAGGGAGCCCAGGAGGGAGGACTCTCAGCAGGGCAGGAGACAGCAGCTAGGACTGGGAGCGGGAGGCCCGCCGTGGACAGGCCCACTCACCCCGTAGGTGATGAGCAGGGCCCTGGGTTTGAGCAGGTGTCCTGCTGCTCTGAAGAGCCCCTGGTGAGTAGGAACAGGACGGCAGTGAGGTGCTGCCCCCAACAGAAGCCAGGCCCTGAGGCTGGAGACCCTCACCCCGACTGTGATGGGGGAGGCTGGAGACCCTCACCCCGACTGTGATGGGGGAGGCTGGAGACCCTCACCCCGACTGTGATGGGGGAGGCTGGAGACCCTCACCCCGACTGTGATGGGGGCAAATCTGGCATCCCAGCTGCCCCCATGCAGGGTGAGTGGTGCCACGGCAGACACCCATGCTGGGCTCCCCACAGACCTCCGTGCAGCGCAGGGGGCTGACATGGGCCATGTTGATGCAGAGCAACAGGTCCAGCGACTGTGGCAGGATCCCGCCCCAGTGCTCCCAGCCCCACGTCACGTCCAGGTGTAGCGGGGCCTTCACGTTGGTCAGGCCCTGGGCTTGCGTGGTGGCCGCGATGCTGCAGGAGGCGAACGCTTGGGTGGGGGCCGAGTCCTGTGCACCCGCCTTTCCGACGCCCCCACAGAATTTCTTAGGGGAGGCTGGGGGGCACGTTGAGGAGCGGAGACCAAAGCGGCTGGGAAGGGGGACCCCGAGGTCCACCCACTTCCGCAGCCGCGGGGGCCGCACAGCTAGGGCCTGCCCCGGGGGCACCCCCAGGCTCCCACCCCGCACCCTCAGAGCCCGAGCCGCATCCTTTTCCTCCGGGGCTGCGGGCCGTGGGCTCTTGAGGCCCCGGACCGCCGCACCGATAGAAGTGGCCGCCCCGGGGGCCGCACCTGTCCAGGCAGCGCTGGTCCACGTCCGACGGCTGCCACTCGGCCAGGGGGAAGGCCCGCGCGAAGTGCGCTGCGTGCTGGCCGGAGCCCGAGGCCACCTCGAGGACGCGGACGCCACGCTGGGCCGGATCCAGGTACTGCCGCAGCACGTGCAAGATGGGATCCTTGTTCCGCTCCGCGGCCGCCGCCACCAGCATCGCGGCAGCAACAACTCCCCGCCGCGGACGCGGCGCGGGTCGCGTCGGGGGCGGTGGCCGGGCTTCCGCGGGGCACGTCGGGAGCTGTAGTCCAGATACCGCGGGGCACGTCGGAAGCTGATAAACTACAACTCCCAGGAGCACGCGCGCCTCCTGTTAAAGGACCAGCAGTCGCCAGAGGCACGGTGGGGAGCGGCTCAGCGGTGTGTGGCGGTCCCAGGCAGGGGACTGAACGGCGAGCTTGGCTTGCTGGTTTACAGGCGCCTCAGCTCAGGCACCCTGTCGCCCATGGCCGTCCAGGGTTTTCAGGGCACCTGTGTCACTCTCCGAAATTTGTGTCAGCGCTGCGCCAGACTGGGCGCCTTCCCTTGGTTTCGGGTTTTCTCTACTTTTAAATTTCTGGCGTTAGCGAGAGTTCGATGTTCAAATGGGAAAAAAAACTAAGTGCGCCGCCCGGGAATCGAACCCGGGTCGCAAGAATGGGAATCTTGCATGATACCACTACACCAGCGGCGCTGTCTAAGACAGTTGCTGCCCGCGGAGACAAGAGACTGTGACGCGGGAAGTCCTCCGGGCGTGCGCCGCCGCTGGCGCCGGGCTCAGCGCAAGGGAGCTGGCGACTGCATAGGAGGACCCAGCTGGCGGGACCGCGAGGGTAAGAGTCTCGCGGTGCCCCCCAGTGCCGGAGGGGAAGGAGCGGGCGTGAAGGACGCGAGCTGGAGGACAGTCTCGATTCGGGCCTGAGCCGTGGAAGCCGTTGGCCTTCGTGAGCCGATGGGGGCGAGGCCCTGTCGGGGCGGGGCTGGGGAGAGGGCGGGGCTGGGCTGGGGCCCCCTGTTGGTCCGAGTTTAgggcggggttgccggaggggcggggccatatcggggcgggtccgagaggggaggcggggctggggggcgggacatgagtgtggactggcgggttggggcggggccagagcggggttgcggcaggggcggcaggggcggcaggggcggcaggggcggcagagggcggggcgggCGGTCCCAGCCTGCAGAACTGGGCGGTCTGCGGGAGGGGCACGAATAATGCCCCAGGGTTTCTCTGTGACACTGGGGTAACAGCACCAGCTCAGGGCCCACGGATAGCGTGAGGGGTCGGTCGGTGACCCCCGAAATCAAGTCACAGGCCGCGATTTATGTGCGCCCGAGGGTTGGGGTCCCAGCCTCAGAGCCGGGCTCTTCTCCAGAAAGTGCCAAGCGCCTGGCTCTGCATTCAGGACTGGCTTAGCGCCTTTGCTGAGCCGTTTTTCACCAATGGGAACCCCATATCGCTCTGGCTAGGGCAAGGACGTTGGAAGGGGTAAACCAGGGAGGGCCAGTCACGTGGCTCAGGGTAGGAGAGTGGCTTACAGGCTGCCAGTCTGGGACTGGGAACGCGGGCCATGGGGGGCTCAGGGAGTCAGGGGTCAGGGACAACCCTGCCAGGAGATGTTGGTGTCCGCCGTGGTGGTGACTGGCCAGACCCTGCAGCAGGCTCTGCGGCCCAAGCCCACGCTTTCCTCGCCTGACTGGCCGCCTCCATCTCTCTTTCTGTGGGCTGAGCACTTTCCCTGCGCCTCCTTCAATGCGCACCCTGCCCCCAACCCCCACCTCGAGGAGAGCCCCAGGAGGAGGGACCTATGATGACCAGTGGTTCTCCTGGGGCCCATGCACCTCTCCTCACCCAGATTTCACCTGGGCTTCCCTAGGCACAGGAAAGAGGAGCCCGAGATCAGTCTCTCTGCGCCTCCCTGCTTCCCCCCTTGAATGGAGCTGCGTTCAGGAGCTGCCTACAGTGCCCAGCGCATGGCAGGTTTAGTGTTGCCTGACTTCAGATATGGCCTATTGTTGGGGCTGGATGTTTGGGCCTCGTGGCTTGACCACCAATGGCTGAAGCAAACGCTAGCTCTGCTGAGCTCTGGGCCAGCCCAGCTTGTCCTTGCCGCCTGCAGTGGGCCCCAAAGGTGGGGGGCCGCCTTCGGGAGCCTGTGTGAGCTCGGGTTATGCCCTTCCCCACATGGGGCTTCCCTCCCCAGCACCGCCCTCACTCTAACTCAGCTGGTCCTTGCTGCCAGGTCTTCCACAGGAGCATATGCCCTCAGGCTGTGCACAGGCCCCCCAGCACCCCGTCCTGCCTCCCTGGCCTGTGTGAGTGATTGCGCTGAAGGCCACTGGGAGAAGCCAGGGCAGGACGCAGGCTGCACAGATGACGGGGATCACACTGGCCTTCCTTGAAGGACACGATGCCCGATGCTggtggggggagggcagagccaggtggggggaggggaactgggggagtggggaaggtgggggcaggggtgggggtgggagGTAGAAAAGAGTCCGTGAGGAGTCCTTCCTAGGGGGCGTCTCAGGCTTGGCCTCCCTGGCTGTGGCTTGCCATCTCCTTTGCCCTCTGAGGGCCACAGGCCTGGCCCAACCCTGCAGAGAAGGCAGCTGGGGATGGAAACCTCTTTCCTTCCGCTCTTCAGCCATGCTGAGGAGGGGTACAGGGCCAAGAGACACCTGGGTCAGAAGCTTCCCTGAGGGCCTCCCAGTAAGTCTGGAGCTCCCAGAAGGGAGGAGAAGCAGGGCCAGTGCATGGGGTGGGGGCTCCTCGGGCTGGCCCCCCACCACCAAGGGCCTCCCCTCACCCCTCCATGTGGTGCATGTTGCTTGCCTGGAAATTTAGACAGGAAGACTCTGGGCCCTGCCGCCCACCCGCCACAGCTCCGTTTTCAGCCACAGCATCCCTGACCTCTCCTTGGAGAATGTGGGGGCCACTGGACACGCCAGGCCCTGATGCCGGCACAGGCAGCCTCCTCTtgttcctggaccaaactgagagtcgggctgctatttctcgtggcccagtaacgagatgcagatgaactggtgaggaagagggtttttatttctgcagccggttacaaggagaaggcctggaaattatcaccagaacaagtcaaattacaaagttttccagaggttatgtaccttccaacctagatgtctgtgtgtaagtgtgcattcatctgaagacataagtggttaacttttttcttttttcttttttttgagacggagtcttgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcacgatcttgggctcactatttttagtagagacggggtttccccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgatttcctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgtgcccggccaagtgattaacttcttttaatctataattaaggcctgagtcctgaagaccttcccctggagcctcagtaaactgacttaatcttgtttcctgctaaatcatgaaggtttggggagttccttcgggctcccaataaacttgtctgtggaggcctggagagtttcttcagacctccaataaacttgtttaatcctaaacgggtcctattaagaattccttcgttatcttgtcgcgcttcaaggcccaggagaggcctgggcacagctcttggtgggcttttgttacattccagcctttgaagaagggcactggcttttcttctttagagtcctgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtgatgtgatctcagctcactgcaacctccacctcctgggttcaagtgattctcctgtctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgtgtgccaccacacccggcAtttttttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcactcttttgcccaggctggagtgtagtggcacgatcttggctcactgcaacctctgtctcccaggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctctggagtagctgggattataggcacctgccaccatgcctggctaattttttttttttttttttttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcactaaattggctgggctggtctcgaactcctgaccttaggtcatccacctgcctgggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtaaaccaccgATCCTGGACAgctttttaagcttttaatattgaactaaccactctgcactgaaataattgttatggaggcctgcgttagtgagacctggcctgccacaCTCTCACATCTGTGGGGCGGGTACAGGAGCCCCAGGGGCCGAAGAGGCACACGTCGGGCCTCTGGGTGCACCTCAGCCTGGGGGCCAGGACGTGGGGCAGAGTGCAGCCAGGGTTCTGACTCCTGGGGTGGAAGGGAGACTCCCAGGGCATCATGTCTCTACCCAAGTCCAGGGGGATGAGCCGCTTTTTCTCTTCTTAGACCCAGTCCCAAGACCCAAGCCAAGGGTGACCCTTCACACTGGCCCAGGCCTCTGCAGGCACCTTGGCTGAGGCTCCCCAAGTATGAATGGTAAATCCTTGCCTCCAGCCTCGGCACAGAGGAGCCCAGCACAGACGCCCCCAGCACAGAGTCCCCCAGCACACAGCCCCCAACACAGAGCTCCCCTGCACACAGCCCCCCTGCACAGACACCCCCAGCACAGAGTCCCCCAGTACAGAGCCCCCAGCGCAGATACCCCCCATAGCACAGAGCCCCCAGAACAGAGACCCACAGCACAGAGTAGCCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCCCCCGGCACAGGGATCCCCAAGCACAGGGACCCCCCCAGCACAGGGATCCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCCCTCAGCACAGGGCCCCCCAGCACAGGGACCCCCCCAGCCCAGGGATCCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCCCCAGCACAGGGATCCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCCGCAGCACAGGGATCCAGCACAGGGACTCCTCCCCAGTACAGGGATCCCCCCAAGCACAGAGACCTCCAGCACAGGGATCCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCCCCCAATACAGGGATCCCCCCAGCACAGGGATGCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCCGCAGCACAGAGCCCCCCAGCACAGGCACAGGGACCCCCCCCCAGTACAGGGATCCCCCCAGCAGAGAGACCTCCAGCACAGGGATGCCCCCAGCACAGGGCCCCCCAGCACAGGGATCCCCCCAGCACAGGGATGCCCCCGGCACAGGGCCCGCAGCACAGAGCCCCCCAGCACAGGCACAGGGACCCCCCCACAGTACAGGGATCCCGCCAGCACAGAGACCTCCAGCACAGGGATGCCCCCAGCACAGGGACCCCCAGCACAGGTTCTCCTCCAGCGCTTGTCAAAGGTGGGCCCTGGGGCTCCGAGGACCCTGCTCGCACATCGCCGCTGACCCCGCAGGGCCCCTGGGTCCTCGCCGCCAGCAGTCTGAGTGCGGTGCCCCGACACTGACATGGCCTCCAGGCAGCAACGGCCTTCCCGGGCAGCAGGGCGCCTCGTCCGCCTTGGCCTCGGGCCTCCGGGGGCTGGGGCGGGGTTGCTGGCGGCTCCGCCCCCGCCTGCCAGTTTCCCAAAGGGCGCAAGCGCCGCCTCCGCCGCGTGTCCGGGGTCAGCCCGAGCCCGTGCGGGCCCTTTAAGGGCCGGGGGCGTGTAgcgggcccgccccctccccgcggcgcccgcAGTCCGTTAAGTGCGAGCCCCGGCGCAGGGGCCGGATCTGGCCGGGGGCCGGCGGCGGTGTGGGAGCGGCGCGTCATGTACACCATCACCAAGGGGCCCAGCAAGCTGGTCGCGCAGCGCCGCACAGGTGCGCACGGGCCGGGGAACGGGAACGGGGAcggggcggggcgcggcggcggcTGACCGCCCCCCGGTGCCCGCAGGTCCCACGCAGCAGCAGGTGGAGGGCCGGCTCGGCGAGCTCCTGAAATGCCGGCAGCCCGCGCCGCCGACCTCGCAGCCCCCGCGGGCGCAGCCCTTTGCGCAGCCGCCGGGACCCTGGCCCCTGTCGAGGTGAGACGCGCGCGGCcccggcccggcccggcccggcTTCCCCTCCCCCGCCGGCCGCCCTAGAGCGGAGGGTGACCTTGGGGAAATGTTAGTGAGGTCCGGCCACGTGCTGCAggcggggcgggcgctccgggcgcggggggtgcgcgggTCCTGCCCACTACGCGCCCGCGGGCCTGCGCCTCGCACTTCCGCCTCACCTGGCCGGGCCCGGGCCCCCAGCGGGGAGAAAGCCGGCCAGTTCCTGGGTCGCAGGGGCCTCCAGCGTCCGAGGTCGGTGCTTCGGGCGACCTTGGGTTGCTGCTGGAACCCTGACGTGCAGCAGGCCCAGGCCACGGTTCGCGGAGAGCGTCGGGCGCTGGTCCTCAAGATCTCCCGGCTCTGCCCTTGCAGAGCTCAGTGGGGGAGACGTGCGTGCGCTTCCCTCGGGCAGGGCCGCTGCCCTCCTCCGCCCTTCACCCCAGACACCCTGGGGCAGTGGGGCCTCCCCCCATCCGGTTGCTTCTGCTTTTCCTAACCCAGTTAGGAAACTCCGAGACCACAGGAGCCTCAGTCCGGCCACTGTGGCCTCCCCGTGACCATGACCCAGAGGTTGGACAGCCCCGCAGGGCTGGACGTTTGACTTTGGCTCAGTTCCTCCACCGTTCCCTTCATTTATCCTGTGCCTCTCCCAGGCCTGTGGATTTTGCTGTGGCCCCAAGCCGGCCCGAAGGCTCCTGGAGGTGGTAGGGTCATGGCCTGAGGCGGTGCTGGGGAGGAGAGCTCGGGCCAGGAGTTCAGGGCAGCTACAGGTGGGGGGGTGCCGAGCCACCCTCAGCCTGCCCCCTGCCTACCTCTCAGAAAGGTGTGGAGGTTCCAGCGGGGCGGGGGCTCTCTGGGGCTCCATCCTAGTGAGGTAAGTGCCCTCTACCAGAGGCGCCTTCTGGCGGGAGGTGAGTGGGCCCCTAGGTGCTTCCAGCATCCCAGCTCTGCTGGGACGCTCCGCGGACATCACCCTTGGTCCTCGTGGCCGCTCTACTTCCCAGGGGAGGAAACCGAGGCACACCTGTAGCCACCACCTGGTCCCCAGGCAGGGAGCATGAGGCTGGAGTGGCCCAGGGTGACGCCGTCTCTCTTAACCTGGGGAAACCACCTTTCTTCTCTCTCCAAGACCCCACTGCTAGGGAGGGCAGGGGTAAGGCTGTGGCACAGTTAGGAGGAGTTAGGGAAGAAGATGGAAATGCTTCCCAGAGTTCTCCATGGGACCCCAAGGGTCCCAGTGGGCAACACCAGGCCCACTGGCTGttgtctctttttttttttttttttttttggagacagagtctccatctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcaatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagtctcttcagtagctgggactacaggtgcgtgccaccatgcccggctaattttatatttttgtatttcaccatgttggccaggatgggctcgatctcctgacctcatgatccacccgcctcagccccccaaagtgctgggattacaagtgtgagctaccgcgcccggccTGTTTTCTTAAAGTCCCCATGTGAGGTCCTCTGTCAGCCAGTGGGACCTGTGGGAGTTGAGTGGGCTTCACCCCGTGTGCAGTGGGGCTAGAGGAGCCCTGGGCAGGGCAGGATGTGTGCTGCCCTCTCCTCCCTGGGGTCACCCACCTTCCCACCCCCAGGCCCCAGCGCTGGGAGCTTCTGGCAGCAGTGGGATCTCTGCATGAAGCCCCCATCCTGCTCCTGCACCTTCTTGGGGCAACCACCTTCCCTCTGtttctttttttttgaaatggagttttgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcaggatctccgctcaccgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaagcgatcctcctgcctcagcctcccgaatagctgggattacaggcgtgcactgccacacccagctaatcttgtatttttagtagagtcagggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtctcaaactccctacctccggtgatgcgcccacctcggcctcccagagtgctgggattacaggcgtgaaccaccgtgcttggccAACCACCTTCCCTCTGAACCACCCCACCCCATGCTGCCACCCACCTCGCTGttttttacttcatttaatttttttctttttgagacaaggtcttgctctgtcacccaggccggggtgcagtggtgcaatcatggctcactgcagcctcaacctcccaggttcaagtgatcctcccacctctcgacttcctgagtagctgggatgacaggcgagcaccacacctggctcatttttaacttttatgtagacaggtctcactatgtggcccagggtagtattcaattcctgggctcgagcaattctcccgccttggcctgtggaagcgttggggttataggtgtgggccaccgcgcccggccCTGCCCTGCCTTTTCTTCTCCTTGGTGCTTTTTGCTACTCCTCATCTCTCACTGACTGGGCGCGGGAGGGGGGTGTCGGGGTCCCTGCACATCTCCTGGTGCACCCAGAGGGTCAAGGCTTGTCACCCATGATGTATGCTGGCTCTGGTTCCTGCCAGGCATGGGTCTGGGCACTGCCCACGACAGTGACAGACCAGATAAACCTTGGtttgtttttttaatttttatttttattctgagatggagtctcgctctgtagcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgtgatctcagctcactacaagcttcaccttccgggttcaggccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagcagctgggactacaggcgccctccaccacacccggctaatttttttgtgtttatagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccacccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagtcaccgcgcccggccACCtttgtttgtttttgagacagagtcttgctctgttgccaggctggagtacagtggcgtgatcttggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcaagtgagtctcccaccccagcctccggagtagctggtattacaggtgcccgccaccatgcccggctaatttttagtatttttagtagagacagagtttcaccacgtatgctaggctgatcttgaactcctgacctcaggcgacccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccacgcccagccCAGATACACCTTTGACAAGTTCTTCCTCCTGGTGGGAGATGGATAGGGGAGGCAGTAAGATAAACTGAGGCGATATAAGTAATAAGATGAAACGGGGCCATGTGATCACCCGACCCCAGGGCAGATGGAGGGTGTGGGGACCGCCACAGGAAGGGACAATGGAATGAACCCCACAGGGCGAGAAGGGGCAGCCTGCAAGAGACGGGGGTGGGGAGGCCCAGTGAGGGCAGGCTGAGGGGCTGGCTTGGGGGCTGTACTGGGTCAGGGCCATGGACTCTGTTGTTGGATTTGCTATGATATCCTGGTGCTGCCCCCACCCAGCATGTAATATGCTCAGGTGGATTCTCTCCCAAGCCCAGCTTCATGGGCTGAAAAAGGGATGGGCTGTGGAGGGGAGAGGAGAGGATGCACTCCACAGCCTTCACCTCCCTGGGCTGAAGTTTGCCCGGAGCAGTGTCCCTGGAAGTGGGAGAGGTTGGCGGTGATCCATAGGTGCTCGCCGGGCCGGTGCCCTTTCCCCCAGAGAGCAGCAGCCTTACGTAACCAGAGCCCCTGGGGCGGTGCCTGCCTCCTGGGGCCCATCTCTGCCCGAGAGCCGCCACCTCCGCCCTTCGATTCACAGCCCCTGGCAATGTTCTTGTCTTCTTAGACATTGATAATCCAACCTCCAAGCTTTCTTGGAGTTTCTGGCTTTCCGAGGTGGGAGTGGGTTGCAGGCAAGGGGGCTTTCCAAGTGGACAAACTTTATTCCCTGTGGTTTGTGCAGAAACTCAGGCAGCGGGCAGGCCTGGGAGGTGCCCCTGCCCCTGTCCCATCTCCACCTGCACGTTTTAAGATCCTCTGTGGCCACCAGACCCTGCCAGCCCTGGGGCCGGCAGGACCCTGCGCCCCTCAAGACACTCCTCTTTATTTTAGTGCCCCTCTCAGCTGAGGAGGAACCGAGAGCGGCGCTGGGGCACCTGAGCCCAGGAAGGCAACAGGCCGGCCGGGACCGCGAGTGCCTGGCGGAGCAGGCGCAGCCCAGGACTCCCGGCTCCCACCTCCGGCTGTAGGTGCGGCCCCATTCCCTCCACGGCCCTGTCCCGGGCTTTGTGTGCTCAGGGCTCGGCCAGCTGGGGCCGCTCATCCCTGCCCTGGGCCCGGCTGGCCGGGACGGGCCCAGGGGCCCACCAGACGTTGCGTGCGGCACTGCGGGAGCCATCTCCTTTGGCATCGCCCCTTGTCTCGGGCCGGTGGGGAGTGGGCGAGGGTTATAGTCACTCTCCCGACTCAGGGACTGCCCATCCCGGCACCCAGTCCTCATCCCATGGGACGTGGGGGCAGCCAGGGAGAGGGCAAAGGCCCCCGTTCCCGTCCAGGTCCATCCGTCCATGGAGGGAAACATCGTGGAGATGGAGGTGCTTCTGTGGGGCGAGAATGTGGCCTAGAACTACACCCAGAGTGGGGGGGTTGGGGCAGAGAGACATGGTCATGGACTGGGTCGTGGCTCAGGTCAGAATCTGGGCTGCTGATGGGATGCAGGTGGCAGCATGGGCACCTGCAAGACCCTCGGGGAGGGGTACTGAGTGGGGCCCGACCAAAGGTTTGGGACACTCTAAGACTGAGGCCCCCACCCTACAGTCACTCACTTCCCTCAGGACACAGGGCTGCAGGTGTGAGCTGAGCTGCCGATGGCTTGGGGACTGCAAGAGAGGCCTGGGCCACCGGCTGCTGTGGGTGGCTGCTCTCTCTGGTTCAGGAAGTGCCTAGGCTGGCCAAGTCTGGGGAAAGTGGGCTGGCCCGGGGCTGCTCCTGAGTTCTGCCAGGCAGCACCGCACCTGGGATGGGCACCAACCATGTCCGTCTCCTCCCTTCCTGCAGTCCAGGGCCAAGGCTTGTGTTCAATCGTGTGAATGGCCGGCGGGCCCCCTCCACGTCCCCATCCTTCGAGGGGACCCAGGAGACCTACACAGTGGCCCACGAGGAGAATGTCCGCTTTGTGTCCGAAGGTAGCGAGCGGGGCCAGAGGGTGCGGCATAGGCTGCTGGGTCGCAAAACCATGGACCCGGGATGGCCCCACTTCAAGCTGACCCACAGCCGCTGCATGGCTGTGCTTTTCCTTGGCACTCTGCCCTTGTGTCCTGTGACCAGCCCTGTGTGGGGCTGGAGTCCAGGGTGACCATCAGGCCCTGGGTGGGCGATGGGGTGCCTGGGACCTGGCTCAGCCCGACTGCCCTCCTCCCACAGCCTGGCAGCAGGTGCAACAGCAGCTGGATGGTGGCCCAGCCGGTGAGGGCGGGCCAAGGCCTGTGCAGTACGTGGAGAGGACCCCCAATCCCCGGCTGCAGAGTGAGCCCCCCAACCCTGTCCCCCCAGGAGAGACCCCCCAGCCCCTCTGATCCTGACCCAGGCCCTGCCAGGTTCCCACCCCAGGGGATGAGGGAGGGGACTCTTGTGCAGAAACCCCTTCTTCCCAGCGCCTGCCGCACTCGGAGTCCGGGTGAGCGGCTTGTGGTTAGCTCCAGGGGAGACTTGCCGGCTGGCCTGGGAGGCAGCATCACTGCCCAGCCTTCTCTGCCCACAGACTTTGTGCCCATTGACCTAGACGAGTGGTGGGCGCAGCAGTTCCTGGCGAGAATCACCAGCTGTTCCTAGTGGCTGCTGGGAGGGGGCGCTGCTACACGGCCGACCTGTCGCCAGGAGAGAAGCATGGCGCCCTGCCCACCCACTGCGCCTGGCTGGGTGCCGGCCACACCTGAAGTGCCAGCATTTGGACTTTTGCACCTTTTTTTCCCTTGGCCCGGCTGTCCCAACCAAGCTGCCATGGCCAAGGGCCGAACCCGTCTGACCTCAGCCCTGCTCACTGTGCCCAGGGACCAGCGACCAGCCCCTGGGGCTGGCAGGGAGGAGCTCCAGGCTAATAAAGTGGAGAAACTGTCTTTTTGGAGTGTCTTTGACTTGGGAGGGTGTAGGGGGGGTTCTCATGTCCAGTTCCAGTCCACAGCCTGGGACGCCAGGCCCAGCACAAACTCCCCTTGTAGCCCTGTTCCTTCAAGCCGTTAGCTTCTCACCCAGCTGCCCTGCGACAGGTAGGAGGGACGTTAGCCAGCCCACCTTGCTTGGAAGTCTGGGGACCCCACTTGGTTCCTCTTTCCTCTCCCGTTGGCGTTGACTGGGACCGAAGCCGAGACTCAAGGCCTAAAGACATTAAATGGCCCCGGAGTGCAGTCCACCACCCCCCACTACCGGCACTGGGGCTGTGTCTCAGAACGCCAGGTCCCATTCTGAATCCGCCGGGCCCGGCCGCAGGACACTGGGCGAAGGAGTACGTGGGGAACCTGATAGGACGAACGTGGGAACCAGCCCCTCCGCGGGCGCCCGCACTACCTTCCCTGATGGACGGGGATGACCCAGCCCACCTGAGTCAGGACCCAGGGTACCCAGGTGTGGAGCAGGGGCCTCTGGACGGCGAGAGAGCGGCAGGGTGAGGCCCGGCCGTCCGTGGCATGGCCAGGCCTCAGCGCGACCTCGCCTCGCTGCTTGCATGCGGCGGGAGCCCCGGCCGGCCGAGGCGCTGACAGGTGGGCGCGGCGGAGGATCCGCAACCGGCGCGGGCTTCGAAGCCGGTCGGGCTAACAGGGGGCTGCCTTGGGAGGCCCGCGGGGCAAAGGGCAGCGGGATTCGCGGCTGGAGCAACCCTGGAGGCCGCTGACGTGAGCGGGGTACTCCCACCGGGGAGGTCACGTGGCCAGGGCGCCGCCATGACGGCGGAAGTAATGGCGGAAGTGGCACCGTTGCCAGGCAGCCGTTGCCTGGCGTCGCGGGGCGTACTCTGCGCTGGGCGCGCGGAGGCCTAGGCGGGAAGCTCGAGCGGCGGCGCCATGGCCCGAGGTAGCGCGCGGCTGGCGGGGGTCCCGAGGATCCCGGGTTCCGGGGTTCCGGGGTCCAGGGTCGGCGGCCGGAGCGCTCAGGGCCCCCGCCTAGGCCCTGAGGCCAGAGTCCCCGCTCAGGCAGGGTCCCGTCTGCCGGGCGCCCACCCTCGGGCTCCCGGAGCTTGGCTTCCCTCGGGCGCCCGGCCTCGTCCCGCCAGCCTAGCTGGCGTTGGCGTCGCCGGGGAAGGCGCGGAGAGCCCCGGCTCCTGCCTGGTCCCCGAGGCCCGGCCCAGCCCCGCAGTGGCCCCGGCTCGCGTGGCCGAGTCCCCTGACGCCCGGCGCCCGCTCCCCGCAGCGTGGCAGCACCCGTTCCTCAACGTCTTCAGACACTTCCGGGTGGACGAGTGGAAGCGCTCCGCCAAGCAGGGGGACGTGGCCGTGGTCACGGTAGGCGGCCGGGGGCTCGCCCGGAGCCCACACCCCTGCCCTGCCCCCAGGAGAGCTGCCCCGCCCCCGAGGGCCCCCTCGCCCCCGCTGCACTTCTTCTGGGTGCTGTCGGTGATGCGGGCTCCCGCTTCTCCAGGACAAGACCCTGAAGGGCGCCGTGTATCGCATTCGGGGCTCAGTCTCTGCCGCCAACTACATCCAGCTCCCTAAGAGCAGCACCCAGTCTCTGGGGCTGACGGGACGATACCTGTATGTGCTCTTTCGGCCCCTGCCCAGCAAGCACTTCGTCATCCACCTCGATGTGTCCTCCAAGGTACGGAGCCCGCGGCTGGGGGCTGCGTGGGAGCCCCGGCACCCCTGCGGCCCCTGTCTCCTCACGGCCCTGCTCCGTCCCCACAGGACAACCAAGTCATCCGTGTGTCTTTCTCCAACCTCTTCAAGGAGTTTAAGTCTACGGCCACGTGGCTCCAGTTTCCCTTGGTCCTGGAGGCCAGGACACCTCAGAGAGGTGACACCAAGATGGGGTGTGGATGATCCAGGACAGGTGGCTGGAGGGAGTTGGTGCAGGCCCAGTGAGGCTCCTCTGCGGCCTGGAGGACAACCTGGCGGGGGCACAAGCTCACAGTTCTGGGAGTCGCGGGCTGTCAGGAGGGTGGGCGCTGACCCTGAGTGCCCATCCTGCAGATCTGGTGGGTTTGGCCCCCTCCGGAGCCCGCTGGACCTGCCTGCAGCTCGATCTGCAGGACGTTCTCCTGGTCTACCTGAACCGGTGCTACGGCCATCTCAAGAGCATCAGGCTGTGCGCCAGCCTGCTGGTCAGGAACCTGTACACCAGTGACCTGTGCTTTGAGCCTGGTGAGGGCCGCACCTGCACTCCCCACTCCATATCTCACCCATGCTCTCAGCCCTGGAGAGGCCCAAGTCCAGGGTGCTTGGGAAAATACAGTGCTCGAGCTGTGCTGTCTCTGAGCTCTGGCCAGAACCCATCCCAGAGGCAGCCCTGGGGTCAGAACCCATCCCAGAGGCAGCCCTGGGGTGGGGCGGTGGCTGGGCTGGTGGCGTGGCAGTGCCTTGGCGGGTGCCCTGTGTTCAGGTGGCTAAACAGCCTCCCTTGACCTGGAACAACCCTGCTCCTTGTAGCCATCTCTGGGGCCCAGTGGGCAAAGCTGCCCGTGACTCCTATGCCTCGGGAAATGGCATTCCCTGTGCCCAAGGGAGAGAGCTGGCATGACCGCTACATCCACGTCCGGTGAGTGGTTCTGCTTCTTTCGAGGGAGGCCTCGGTGGTGGGAGGGTGGGTGGCCCTTGGGCCCCCAGACACTGACTCTCCCTCTGCCTGCCAAGGTTTCCAAGTGAGAGCTTGAAAGTGCCTTCCAAGCCGATTGAGAAGAGCTGTTCCCCTCCTGAGGCAGGTGGGTCTGGGGGGTCAGCGGGGACCCAGGTTAAGGCCTGTAGGGTGCGTGGGGCTCGGTAGGAGAGGGCAGGGCTGGGAAAGGACCCAGTGGTGTGCTGGCTGCAGCTGGTGCAGGGACCCAGGGAAGCCCGTAGGTTGTCCGAGTTCCCAGAACCACGAGGGTGGGAAGTCTGTGTGAGGGGTACCCGGGGGCCCCAAGCTTTCTAGCTGGAAGAGGAGACTTTCAGGGCCTAGGGTGGAAGTGGGGATACTGGCTGTGGGTCCTGCAGAGCCGGTGAGGCTGGGCCACTTGCTGCTGCCCTCCCCAGGCGTCACCCTCACCAGGCATCTGCACAGCTGGCCCCTGGGTCACTGGGGTTCTTTGCTCTGTTCTAGTCCTCCTGGGGCCGGGGCCACAGCCTCTCCCTTGCCCGGTGGCCTCCAGCAAACCTGTGCGGTTCAGTGTGTCTCCAGTGGTCCAGACGCCCAGCCCCACAGCCGTGAGTACCCCCTTCGCCCTATGAGATGGGGTTGGGGTGTGATGGCCCAGGACGCTGATGGGCACTTGTCCCCCAGCAGTCCGGCCGGGCCGCCTTGGCACCCAGGCCCTTCCCGGAGGTCAGCCTGTCCCAAGAGCGCTCAGACGCCTCCAACGCGGATGGCCCCGGTTTCCATAGCCTTGAGCCCTGGGCCCAGCTGGAGGCCTCTGACATCCACACGGCTGCTGCCGGCACCCACGTGTTGACTCACGAGTCGGCTGAGGTGCCCGTGGCCCGCACCGGCTCCTGCGAAGTGAGTGCCCATCCCACAGCAGGCGGGGCCTGGTGAGGTGTGGGCTGGGGCAGCTGGTAGCCCGCCCCGAGATGCATTCAGAACGGATGTGCCTCCAACGGTCTCCTCTTGTTCAGCCTCCTGGCAAGGAGCAGAGCTGGCGGGAGGCGGCTTTGGGGAAGAATCTCTGTCCACAAAGAGTAAGGCAGGGCTTCTGCTCACCCCCAATGCGTCAGCCCCAGGTGGTCTGTGGGGGACCCTCGAAGGTCTGGCAGTGCAACTGGAGTCCCAGCTTCCACCTTACCACAGCCAGCAGGAGCCACCCAGGACCAGGGCAGTCTTCTTGAGAGGCAGGACCCAGCTAGGGGTTGGCGGGGCTCGGAGTTGGTCGGGCATTCTGGGGACCTGGCTGAGCCTCCCAGGACTTTGATGCGAATGGCTGTTTCAGGGCTTCCTCCCAGACCCAGTCCTGAGGCTCAAGGGCGTCATCGGCTTTGGGGGCCACGGCACCAGACAGGTGAGGCTCCTGCGGCTGTGTCCAGAGCAGCTCTCGTTGGCCGGCTCGAGCGCTGAGTACAGAACGGGGAGAGAGGAGAGACCTATGTCCTGTGGTGGCTGTGTGTGGGCTCCCGAGCCCCCCTGGCACAGCGGTCCCGTCCCCCTGCAGTCCGCTGCTTCCCGCGTGCTCAGGCATCTGCCCCGCCCACAGCTGCTGTCACCTCCTGGTGCCCGGGGGCTCTCAGGGTCACGGGCATCTCTTACTCACTGGCTGGGCTAAGTGCTCCCCCCGAAGACCCAGAGCTCTCACGTCTTTAGAGCTCTGATGATCCAGACCAGCAGTGTGGGGCCAGGCTGTGGGCACAACCTGTAGGTCCCTCATGGGTGACGTGGGCCTTCTAGGAGAGGAGCCCCATGGCAGAGGAGGTGGCCTTCCCCTCTGCCTCAGTGGCCTTGGGCCCTTGTCAGGCCCTGCTGGGTGCCTGCTCTGAGTGTTTGGGGGCCCTTTGGCCTTTTGTTACCCCCACCCCGGAGTTTCTTGCACTGGAGGCGGGGCTTAGAGGACAGGCGTCTGTGCATGTGTGTACACGTGTCTGCTTGAGTGTTCCAGCTGTTCTTTTGACACATGCAGCCTGTGACTCGTGTATGTAGTGTGTGCAGGGTGTGTGTTCTCTCTTGCCCCTGGGTGGCTGTGTGCCCAGGTGTGTGTGCCAGGCCTGCCACCCCCTCTCCCTGGGCTGGAGTGGGAGGTGAGGCTGACCTCCCGGCAGCCAGGAGGGGCCTGGCGTAGCACCGGTCCTCAGCCCCCCGCCCCCTTGTGCCAGGCCCTGTGGACCCCAGACGGGGCGGCTGTCGTGTACCCCTGCCATGCGGTCATCGTCGTCCTGCTCGTGGACACGGGGGAGCAGCGCTTCTTCCTTGGCCACACAGACAAGGTGGGTGCTGCCCGGGCCTGGGGCAGCTCACACCTGCAGCCCCTACACCCTCCCTCACCCTTCTGCCTCCTAGGTCTCCGCCCTGGCGCTGGATGGCAGCAGCTCACTATTGGCCTCGGCCCAGGCAAGGGCCCCTAGTGTGATGCGGCTCTGGGACTTCCAGACCGGGCGGTGCTTGTGCCTGTTCCGGAGCCCAATGCACGTTGTCTGCTCTCTCAGGTGAGCACAGGTCTGCCCCATGCAGGGGGAGGGGGTCAGCCCAGGCGACAATGACCACCTCCTCCCTGTTCACAGCTTCTCTGACAGCGGGGCCCTTCTCTGCGGGGTTGGCAAGGACCACCACGGGAGGACGGTAACAGGGCCCTGGCTGCGGGTTGGGGTGGGGCTGTCCTGATGCACGCAGACAGCTGGAAGGGTCTTGGTTTTCTGAAACTCCAGCTTCATGTGACCCTGGGTCCCTGCTCTGTGTCCTCCCTGTGGTGGGGCTCCCTGCACTCTGGTGTTCATGCCGCCCCCGTGCCCTGCACAAAAACCACCACCAGCAGCTCACATTTCACGTCTCGGCTTTTCGGCCATCGGAGTCGGTTTAAGCCAGCGTTTACACACCTCGCCTCGTTCTCTCTGCTGGTGATGCGGTTGTAAGATTTTCACGTGGCAGAGCCCCTGCAGCTGACCCACGCTTGGGCATCAATGGCACCTCCACACAGCCGAAGCACCCGGCATCTTGGTGGGGGCACCTTTTTAAACAttttttttttgagagagagccttgttctgtcacctaggctggaatgcagtggtgcaatcatagctcactgcagccttgaccccctccctgacctccccgccagctggactccagccatcctcctgcctcagcttcccagatagctgggccacaggcgtgtgccaccacacctggctaacttttttttttttttttttttgagatggcatcttgctctgtcgcccaggatggagtgcagtggcgcgatcttagctcactgcaagctccgcctcccaggttcacaccattctcctgcctcagcctccccagtagctgggactacaggcgcctgccaacatgcctggctaattttttttttttgtatttttagtagagataggctttcaccttgttagccaggatggtctcacgttttgtttttttaactttttgtagagatagggtttcattacattgctcaggctggtctcaaactccagggctcaagcagtcctcccacctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggatcacaggcatgagccactgtgcccagccACGAGCTGCTTTTTATCCACCTTCCGGCTTGCGGGGGGGTTTGTACTTCTCTGCGAATGGGTTGCAGTGCTCAGCATTGCGGGTCTCTGTAGAAGTCCCAAAGCTTCAGGATGAGAAGATGGAGGGGCTGGTTTCCTTCCACTCTCCACGGCCGCACGCTCAGAGGCTGGTCTCCGCATGAGAGAAAAGCCACCTCCGGGTGGGGCTCGGCTGGGCCTTGCAGAATCGAGGTGGCCCCGACTGGCCCTGCCGTGCGGGCTCAGCCTGGGCTTGTTGCAGATGGTGGTGGCCTGGGGCACCGGCCAGGTGGGCCTCGGTGGCGAGGTGGTCGTTCTGGCAAAGGCGCACACTGACTTTGACGTCCAGGCCTTCCGGGTCACCTTTTTTGATGAAACCAGGTGATGCAGCCGCCCATCCACGATGTTGGGAGAGGGTCTGGGCCCGGAGTGGGGGCCGAGGCCCGAGCACCTCCCCCTGGCTTGGCTGTGCGTCTCTGCGTCTCCCGGTGGGTCAGGGCGCTGCGAGCTGCGGCAGTGCTCAGTCCTCATTCCTTGCAGGATGGCGTCGTGCGGGCAGGGCAGTGTGCGGCTCTGGCGGCTGCGTGGCGGGGTGCTGCGTTCCTGCCCCGTGGACTTAGGGGAGCACCACGCGCTGCAGTTCACCGACCTGGCCTTCAAGCAGGCCCGGGACGGCTGCCCGGAGCCCTCGGCTGCCATGCTGTGAGTCCCTGCCCTTCCCCACGGCCTGCCCCGGCATGGGGGCCCTGGTGCCTGGGCCTCCCCTTCCCTGAGGGCCTCACCTTCCCTGCCGCCTCCTCGGGCAGCTTCGTGTGCAGCCGCAGTGGCCACATCTTGGAGATTGACTGTCAGCGCATGGTCGTGCGGCATGCCCGCCGCCTGCTCCCCACACGGACTCCAGGCGGTCCCCACCCACAGAAGCAGACCTTCAGCTCAGGTAAGAGGGCGCCCACCACGTGGCCAGGGTGGCAGGGACACCGAGGCACTGACGCCTCCCTGCCCCCAGGCCCCGGCATTGCCATCAGCAGCCTCAGCGTCTCCCCGGCCATGTGTGCTGTGGGCTCTGAGGACGGCTTCTTGCGGCTCTGGCCCCTGGACTTCTCCTCGGTGCTCCTGGAGGCAGGTGATGCTGTGGGCACGCTCTCCCAACTCCGGGAGAGCCTCGCCTGGATGCTGGGGCGGGGAAGGCCCAGTCCCCGGGGCTCTGCTGTCAGCCGCCCTGGCTCCTGGCTGCACAGGGTGCCACGGGGCCAAGTGGCATATCCAGAGCCCTGGGGCGGCTGATGCCAGGGCGGCCCGCGGGGCAGCCTCACGGAAGGGCCCGGTGGGACGTGGGTAGTGTGTGAAGCCCCTCAGCCTGGGTCCCGCCTAGCCTAAGAGTGGTGGCCTCGAGGGAGCTGCATCTTGCAGCCGTGTGGAGCCTGGGACTTTGAGCAGCAGGGAGTGCATTTGCTGGGGTGTCGGGGACCCGAAGCCTGAGCATGCGGCTCACCCCGGGGTGGCCCTGGAGGCCCCTGACCCCACCCCACCCACAGAGCACGAGGGCCCCGTCAGCTCAGTCTGTGTCAGCCCCGATGGCCTCCGTGTGCTGTCTGCCACCTCCTCGGGCCACCTGGGCTTCCTGGACACGCTGTCCCGGGTGTACCACATGCTGGCTCGCTCCCACACCGCCCCGGTGTTGGCCCTCGCCATGGAGCAGAGGCGGGGACAGCTGGCCACCGTGTCCCAGGACCGTACCGTCCGCATCTGGGACCTGGCCACCCTGCAGCAGGTGGGGTTTGGCAGGGGCAGCACGGCAGGGAGGGCCGGGAGGTCCTGAAGCTGGGGTTTGTCAGCGGGGGTGAGAGGGGCCTATAGGGACCTGGACTTTCCAGCCTGTGTCGGCCCCATGGGTTTGGGCCGCCTGGAGAGCCCCTGGGCCCTTGAGATCCCTGCCCTCCCCTCAGCACGGCCCCTGTCCCACAGCTATACGACTTCACATCATCAGAGGACGCCCCGTGCGCTGTCACCTTCCACCCCACAAGGCCAACCTTTTTCTGTGGCTTTAGCAGTGGGGCCGTGCGCTCCTTCAGCCTGGAGGCCGCTGAGGTCCTGGTGGAACACACGTAAGTGCCCAGCTGGCCACCAGCCCCACGGAGACCCCACGGTGGAAGCTGGGGTGGCCAGGTGGGGGTCATGTGCAGGATGGCCAGTGCTGGCTGGAGCCCCACCCTTTGCTGCCCCATGGGGACTTCCATGGCCAGGCTGGTTGGCTGGAGGTCGAGGGAACCCATGGTACCTGGGCTTCGGGGCTAGGGCCAGCGGGGTCCCTGTGTGTGCTGCAGGTGCCACCGAGGAGCTGTCACCGGCCTGACCGCCACCCCTGACGGCCGCCTGCTCTTCAGCTCCTGCTCCCAGGGCTCCCTGGCCCAGTACAGCTGTGCGGACCCCCAGTGGCATGTCCTCCGAGTGGCAGGTTGGGCCCCCTGCAGCCACTCTGGGGGACTCCTCAGGGCGGGGGAGGCCTGGATCTGGTGCAGGCCCACACCTGGACACACATGCCGGTTTCCTGGTGCACCGACTGGGTCCTGTGGGGGGGCGTGGCCGCCTCAGTAACCTTGTCAAGGCCCTGAGGAGACTGTGGTTTAGCGTTCACTGGACCCCAAGGCCAGAGGTCAGCTCGGGTCTGTGCCCAGGAGGCGGCAGGCAGCCCAAGCTCCAGGTCAGCAGCTGGAGTCAGACCCAGGCATGGGCACCTGCCCTGTCCTGCGGCCACCATAACTTGGGCCCCCTGAGTGGTCACTTATGACTACTGCTGGCCCACGGGGACTCCCAGCTCCCCTGGCAGCGCCTGGCGCCCACTGGCACCTTGGCAATCCTCTGCCGGTGTGATGCGTCTGTGCTCCGGGGCTGGTGTTTCCCGAAAGTGGGGGCAGGGGCGGCGGCCTCCTCGGGCCCTGGCCACGCGCACCCCGGCACTCCCCACCCAGCTGACCCCTGCCCCGTGTGGCCACAGCGGACATGGTATGCCCGGATGCCCCCGCGAGCCCCAGCGCCCTGGCAGTCAGCAGGGATGGCCGCCTGCTGGCCTTTGTGGGACCCTCCAGGTGCACAGTGACAGTCATGGGCTCGGCCTCCCTTGATGAGGTGAGTCCGCAGCCCTCCTGGGTCCAGGGAGACTGGGCCATGAGAGGCTGGCTGCAGGGGCAGGAGGGAGGTCACGGCCACTCGGGAGCAGGACCCAGGCCCTGTCCCGCCTCCTGTCGCAGAGTACACATCAGCCATGTGGGGCCCACGTGCGGCCAGGTTCCTGTGCAGGGCAGGTGCTGCCTGGGTGCCGAGTGCGTGTCCCCGGGACCTCCCTCCCGAGCCTGACCCTGGGTGGCACCGGCTCTGCCCAGGGGCCCTGACTGTCGGCCACTTACCACTACCCCCAGCTGCTGCGAGTTGACATCGGCACTCTGGACCTGGCCAGCAGCCGCCTGGACTCAGCCATGGCTGTGTGCTTTGGCCCTGCAGCTCTGGGCCACCTGCTGGTGTCCACCTCGTCCAACAGAGTCGTGGTGCTGGATGCTGTGTCGGGCCGCATCATCCGGGAGGTGAGCCTCAGGGCTGTGGCCCGCCGACCTGGCCCTCCCTGTGCTGTCCAGGCCTGGCCTCTGTGCCTGCAGCCTCTCCAGCTGGGTGGGGGGCCGTCGCCACACCCACAACGAAGGGAGGCCCCAGGCTGCTGGCCACTCTCCTGAGACACGGCATTTCCCAAGAGCACTGTGTTCCAGCTGCCCGGTGTCCACCCTGAGCCCTGCCCCTCCTTGACGCTCAGTGAGGACGCCCGCTTCCTGCTGATTGCCGCCGGCCGGACCATCAAGGTGTGGGACTACGCCACACAGGCCAGCCCAGGCCCCCAGGTGTGTGCGTGGGGAGGCAGGTGGCTTTGGCGGTCAGGAGCCTCCTCAGGTGGCCCTGGAGACCCCTGCAGGTGTGGGTGGGGGCAGGGAGAGCAGAAGGTGAGGGGTGAGAGTGACCCCCCAAGGATCCTCTGTGCCTCCGGGGCCTCACACTGTGTGGGGCTCACCGTCCCTGGGGACTGGGCACACGGCAGCATCCATGCCCCGCCTCGGGGTCCTGCATGTGACGCCGCTACCCCTAGGTGTACATCGGCCACTCGGAACCCGTGCAGGCTGTGGCCTTCTCTCCTGACCAGCAGCAGGTCCTCAGCGCAGGGGACGCCGTCTTCCTCTGGGATGTCCTGGCCCCTACTGAGAGGCAAGTGCCTACTCTCAGCTGTGTCTGCCTAGGCCCCCCAGGCCCTCCTGAAACCCTCTCTCCTCCCTCTCCAGCGACCAAAGCTTCCCCGGGGCCCCCCCAGCCTGCAAGACAGGTGAGTGGCTGTGCTCAGCTGGGGTGCAGGTGCTGCGCTGACTCTGGGGCCCGTCCTGTGTCTGCCTAGTGGCCCTTCCTCTTCCTTCCCAAACATCACAGGGCTGCTTCTTCCCCAGGCCCGGGCGCAGGACCGCTGGAGGACGCAGCGTCCAGGGCCAGCGAGCTCCCCCGGCAGCAGGTCCCCAAGCCATGTCAGGCATCTCCACCACGGCTGGGCGTCTGTGCCAGGCCTCCCGAAGGTGGCGATGGTGAGCAGCAGGGGTCCTGGAGGAGTGGGGGGATTCGGGGGTCTGAGAGGGCACAGGCCCAGTGGCAGCAGGTACTCACGCACGTCCAGCTCTGGGGTGCAGGTGCCATCGCTGCTCATCAGGTGGAACACAGTGGGGTCGGGGTGGGGGCAGCTTTTCCTCTCCTCCTTAGCCTCATCAGGTGGAACACGGTGGGGTCGGGATGGGGGCAGCTTTTCCTCTCCCCCTTGGCCCCAGGCACCTTGTCCCCGTCAGATGAGGAAGGACCCTGTGAGGAGAGCTGTGACCCCGAGGGGCTTGGGCAGGCCTCAGGCCCACCTGTGCTCACGGAGGAGGAGGCTGGCAGGGCTGGAGACGGGGCCTGGGCTGCGGCAGTGGGCTCCTGGGGGCTTGCCCTGCCTCCCCGTTCCCCCGGCCAACCCCGTGAGCAGTGGAGGGCAGGGCAGGGACGCTGGTGCCGGTGCAGGGGCCTGAGGACGGTCGGTGAGTCCCCCGTGTGACGAGGCAAGGTCACCTGCAGTGGGACACGGTTTGCCTGCGTCTGTGGCTCCGGCCTGTGCCCCGCCGTGCAGTTCTCACTGTGTGGTAGACCAGGGGCTTGTGGGGAGACTGCGTGTAGTGTGGGGTCTCTGAAGAGCTCAGGGCAGTGTAATGCCACAAGCTCTGCCTCCTCCCTGCCAGGCGCCAGGGACACCAGGAATTCGGGGGCCCCACGCACCACCTACCTGGCTTCCTGCAAGGCCTTCACGCCTGCCAGGGTCAGCTGCAGCCCCCACTCTGCCAAGGTGGGGAGTGGTTTCTGGGAGCCCTCTTTATCCCCAGCAAGCACAGAGGCCCCCCGCAGGGCTCCCCAGCACCTCCTCAGGGTTGCTTTTGGTCGCCAAAGGTGATGGCTCTGGCCCTTGGGCGCCTGTCCCCTGGAGGCAACTTCATCCCACACCCCCACCCCTGCCCTCCGCTGGCCTCCAGACGGGACTCTGTGGTGGCCTCCTGCTGACCTGCCTTCCCCTCTCACCCAGCAGCTGCCCTTGATGAGAGCCCCACGGGCCTGTGCCCCTCCTGGCCCTGGCACAGTGCCCACAGCTCCCACACCTCCTACCCCAGCTTCCCCGTCTGCCCCTGGGTGTCCTCTGCAGCTGGCCTGGGTGTGCCCCAACACAGCCTCCCATGTGCAGGCTTTGGGGCACAGGTGGCCATGCTGGGCCCCAGCAGCATCCGGGTCTCCTTCCTCGCAGGGCACTTGCCCGCCTCCCGCCAGCGGTGGGTGGCTGCGTCTGAAGGCTGTCGTCGGTTACAGCGGGAATGGGCGGGCCAACATGGTCTGGAGGCCGGACACAGGTGGGGGCCAAGAGCCTACCCCCACCCCCAGCCAAGATGCGGCCGCGCGTGGTCCAGCCGTCTCCACCCCAAGGCCAGGACCTGGTGGCAAATGAGCGCCAGCCATCAGTGTGGGGCTCTGTTCTCCCGGTAGCGCCTCCTGGCGCTCCAGCCGAGGTCCTGTGAAGCACTTTGGCTACTGGACGCTGGGGAGGGCGCAGCTGGGACGATGCTAACcccttggccccgccccacggctcggcccaggccccgccccctgttcggcccctccccaggcccctccccgcccccccccccccccggcccggcctcaggccccgccctcTCTGCGCACAGGCTTCTTTGCCTACACGTGCGGCCGCCTGGTGGTGGTGGAGGACCTGCACTCTGGCGCCCAGCAGCACTGGTCCGGCCACTCTGCGGAGATCTCCACGCTGGCCCTCAGCCACAGTGCCCAGGTGCCCGCCTGCATCGCCCTCCTCCTCTCCCAGGGCCACCGTGCCCGGCAGAACCCAGCTCCCGGACCGGTGCGGGTTCTCACCACCAAAGACGGAGCAGACGGCCACCCCAGCCTCCACTCCAGCCAGCCACGGCCTCCCCACTCACGCCTGGCCTCTTGCCTGCCAGGTCCTGGCCTCTGCCTCGGGCCGAAGCAGCACGACCGCCCATTGTCAGATCCGCGTCTGGGACGTGTCTGGCGGCCTCTGCCAGCATCTCATTTTCCCCCATAGCACCACCGTGCTGGCCCTGGCCTTCTCACCAGATGACAGGCTTCTTGTCACACTGGGTCAGTGGGAGGGAGGGTGGAGGCCAGGGGCTTCCCTAGACCCCGGGGGGGGCTGCATCTGTGCACCTGACGTGGCTGCTCTGTGTCCTTCCCAGGGGACCACGATGGCCGCACCCTCGCCCTGTGGGGCACGGCCACCTATGACCTCGTGTCCTCCACCCGCCTCCCGGAGCCGGTGCATGGTGTGGCCTTCAACCCCTGGGACGCCGGCGAGCTCACCTGTGTGGGCCAGGGCACTGTCACCTTCTGGCTCCTTCAGCAGCGTGGGGCAGACATCAGCCTTCAGGTGCCACCCGTTCAGCGTTTGGGCCCAGGGGTTGTTTTGTGGGGTGGAATCTGCCTGGGCCCCGGGACACTGCTGACCCATGGCCACTCTCATACTTTGCCAGGTGCGTCGAGAGCCAGTCCCAGAGGCAGTGGGGGCTGGAGAGCTGACCTCGCTCTGCTACGGGGCACCTCCCCTGCTCTATTGTGGCACCAGCTCTGGCCAGGTCTGTGTCTGGGACACGCGTGCCGGCCGCTGCTTCTTGTCCTGGGAGGCGGATGACGGTGGCATTGGTGAGTGCCCCGCAGAAGCCCTGTGGCCCTCAGGACCCCTACCTGGGATCCTCAGAGCTGGGGCAGAAGCCTCATCTGTAGCCCTGGCGTCCGGGCAGCCTTGTGACCCAGGGCCTCTGGGAAGGCAGCCGTGGCCCCTTATGGCTCCTCCTGCCCCTAGGGCTGTTGCTGTTCTCGGGTTCTCGATTGGTCAGCGGCAGCAGCACGGGGCGGCTGCGCCTGTGGGCCGTGGGGGCTGTGTCGGAGCTGAGGTGCAAGGGCTCAGGCGCCAGGTGAGCTGTTCACCCCTACGTGTTTTGGCTGCACGTGGGTGTTGGTGTCCCTGACTGGGGCTTGCAGCCAGTGCCCCGCCCCCGCAAAGGCCGCCCTGCAGACCGGCCGCCTGCTAGCCCCTCCAAGGGACAGGCTTGGGTGTGGCCTGGGCCTCACTGGCTGCTGTCGAGTACGGGCATGGGCCCAGAAGCCCCAGCTCCATGGGCTTTCTCTTCTTCCACCGGGAGGGCACAGCCAGGTCCTGAGATGCAATGCTGAGGGCCCTGCCTCGGCTGGGGACCCAGCTGGCTCTTGTCATCGGCCTTGAGACCCATTGTTCTCTCCTTCCCTGCACCCTGAGGTCCAGTTCTGTGTTCATGGAACACGAGCTGGTGCTGGACGGGGCTGTGGTGAGTGCCAGCTTCGATGACAGCGTGGACATGGGCGTCGTGGGCACCACGGCGGGCACGCTGTGGTTTGTCAGCTGGGCCGAGGGCACCAGCACACGTCTCATCAGTGGCCACAGGAGCAAGGTGAGGGACTTCCAGCCTGGGCAGAGGCGGGGCAGCCGAACCTGGTGCCCTCCCTGCCTGCCGGCTCCATCTCCACCAGCCCAGATGATTCCAAGTCCTGCCGTCACTGGCTCGCAGCGGCCGCCTTGGGGTTCCCAGCGGGGAAGTCTTGGGTGTGCACGTCCCCTCAAAGCCGTCCCGGTTGTGTCTGCACAAGCGAGCCGCCTGGCAGGCCTTGCAGGTCTTCTCAAACTGTCCTTTCCCTGCTATTGCTTTGCGTTTTTTTGTTTGTTTGTTTTTTGTTTTTTGTAATTGTCAAAGAAATCACATCAGTccgggcgtggtggttcatgcctgtgatcccagcactctgggaggccaaggcaggtggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggtcaacatggcgaaatcccatctctactgaaaatacaaaaattagccgggcctcttgatgtatacctgtaatcccagctactctggaggctgagacaagagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgaaccaagattgcaccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagactccatctcaaaggaaaaaaaaaagatgaaaaaCCCCACATCGTCTGTCCCTGCACCTCCCATAGACTGGCTTTGCTGACTCAGTCTCATGGGATTGTTCTCTGAGGCTCAAGAGGTCAGGAGGCCCAGGTAGCTACTGGGTCAAGTTCTGCTCTCTCTGGGTCAGGTCTGTTCAGGTTCTGGTTGGTGTTGGGTCTAGTCCTGTAAGGCCCAGCTCTGGCCTGCAGCCTCCTGGTGCTGGAGCTGCGTCTCCAAGAAGTACACAGCACTCATCTCTCTGGGACCTCCTGGTCTGGAAGCTCTGTGGCCTCATGGGGTTGGGACAGCCACCGTGTCGCCCCCTCACCCGCCAGCTGCAGCCTTAGGAGAGGTGGCCTCCTGGGCGGAATTGGGGCGGCAGGACAGGTGCCATTCCTTCCCCTGCTGGACCAGGTTCCTGGCGTGGCGTTGGTCTAGCAGCTGTGGCCATGGGCTTCCTCCTGTGGGTGTAAGAGCTCTGCGTGTGGTCAGCTGGGCCCCACGGGATTGATTTTTCCTTGATGCTGAGTCCCATCATCCAGTTGCCCCTGGGTTGTTTCTTTAGAAACCTGTCTTTAGTATTTGGAGATGACGATAGCCAGCAAAGAAAGTTGAGTTTGAGACAGGTGAGGGTTGTTTACTTTTCTGGAAGCAGGTTTGCTGAGGTGTAGTCGTCACAGCACAAGCTCCGTGTGTTTCAGGGGGTGGCTTTTGGCATATTCAGCAGCTTTGGAAACCCCGTGCGTGcctagaggaaaccccgtgcgtgcctgttcctcggtcgctccctgcttcccgcctccccagcccctggcgaccgttgagtggctttctgtgtctgggtcttcccattcaggatattctgtaggaactggctcacctggcttctcaccctgagcatggtttccagggtcatcccagccgctgtgtgtgccaagccagtcatccctcttgatggccaaatactgttccattgtacggatagatcatgtgtgtgtccatccaccagggctgggaaattcgggtCCTGAGACCGTGACCTGAGCCCGTGGTCACTGGTGGCCTTCCTGTGATGTGGAAGTGCGAGGAATTCTGGGCCCCGCCTGTGTGGTTCTGCCTGGGCGGTTCTGCCTGGGCCTGGACTTTGCCGTTTCCTTGTAGGGCCCAGGGCCCTCCCGGGGAGATGGACTGAGCTGTCCTGGTCTGAGTCCCTGCAGTCCCTCATTGCTCAGCTGAACTGAAttttttttttttttttgagacggagtttcttgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcatgatcttggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacaccattctcctgtctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggcacccgccaccacgcccgactaattttttgtatttttagtagagtcggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgaactcctgaccccgtgatccgcccaccttggcctcccaaagggctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcgcccggctGAACTGATTTTTTTTTAATGAAGTGCATCGTGTTCCCACTTGCACTTAAAGTTCACATTTGGTGCCAGGCTGTATTGCTTCTTCTCACTGGTGAGTGGCAGCTGTGTCTCCTTTCTGCCAGTCCAGCAGTCCCAGCTGTCAGTGGCACCTGCATAATGACACGTCTGCATTTCCCCCCAATCAGCGTGCAGCGGTTTTGGGAGGAGGAATGCGACTGCATGGCGCGCTCGCTGCAACCTCAGTCTGCAGCCTGCTAGGGACGCACGGCCACACTCCTGTCTTTCAGCCTCAGTCTGCAGCCTGCTAGGGACGCACGGCCACACTCCTGTCTTTCAGCCTCAGTCTGCAGCCTGCTAGGGACGCACGGCCACACTCCTGTCTTTCAGCCTCAGTCTGTAGCCTGCTAGGGATGCACGGCCACGCTCCTGTCTTTGAGGTGCTGTCAGAACAGCTTTCTCCTCGGTATCCCGCCGGGTTTGACTGGCTAGTGGGCTTGCTTTGGTTTGGACTCACCCAGATCTAGTGCAGGGACACACACGGGGGCCGGCATTGCTCCTTTCCGCCATGTGGAGTTGGCCGGGGCCAGAGGCACATGCTCTGGTTTGGACAGCCCGGCCCTGGGGGCTGGAATAGGAAATGCCTGCGTCCCTTTACCCTGCCCAGGGGCCAACACCCCCAGCCTAGCTACGGCTTCCCCCAGGTGAACGAGGTGGTCTTCAGCCCCGGGGAGTCCCACTGCGCCACATGCAGTGAGGATGGGAGTGTGCGGGTGTGGGCCTTGGCCAGCATGGAGCTTGTGATCCAGTTCCAGGTGCTGAACCAGGTGTGTGGGGAGTGCCCGGGCCGGGGGCGGGATGGGGGCCTGCTCAGTGGGGGGCCTGGCATGGGCGGGGCCGCCTCCTCCCTCTGGCCTGGGTGTGTGTCCTCAGGGCCCCTGTGAGTGCTGAAGTTTCCCCACTGTGGGTCCCCAGAGCTGCCTCTGCCTGGCATGGAGCCCCCCGTGCTGTGGCCGCCCTGAGCAGCAGCGGCTAGCGGCTGGCTACGGTGACGGCTCCCTGCGCATCTTCAGCGTCTCCCGCACGGCCATGGAGCTCAAGATGCACCCCCACCCGGTGGCGCTGACCACTGTTGCCTTCTCCACCGATGGTGAGGAGTTGGGTGTGTTGGGGATGGTGCCGTCCTGACCTGGCCCAGGTCCAGTCTCCGGGCTGGGGGCTCACAGGGTGACGGCATGGTCCCAGGTCAGACTGTCCTCTCTGGAGACAAGGATGGGCTCGTGGCTGTGAGCCACCCCTGCACAGGGACAACCTTCCGTGTGCTGAGTGACCACCAGGGCGCCCCAATCTCTACCATCTGTGTCACGTGCAAAGAGGTAAAGCAGCCCCAAGAGCTGGGGAGAGGGGGCCTGGGTGCTGGTGGGGGCAGGCACCATCTTGGCAGAAGGCACCTGTCGGCCCTCACCCACTCCATTCCCAGTGTGAAGACTTAGGGGTGGAGGGCACAGACCTATGGCTGGCTGCCAGTGGGGACCAGCGGGTCAGCGTCTGGGCCTCCGACTGGCTGCGGAACCACTGTGAGCTTGTGGACTGGTTGAGTTTCCCAATGCCTGCCACCACGGAGGTAAACCATGCTCCTGGCACTGTGGGTGGGGCCGGTACCCATCCACCCCACCGCAGCATGCTGCGCCTTTGCAGACTCAGGGCCACCTGCCACCCTCCCTCGCTGCCTTCTGCCCTTGGGATGGGGCGCTCCTGATGTACGTGGGCCCCGGTGTTTACAAGGAGGTGATCATCTACAACCTCTGCCAGAAGCAGGTACACGCAGCTGCCCGCGTGTCACTGGGAGCCCCAGGGATCCAGGGTGGTGGGTGGGGCCTGGCTGAGCCCTGAGCCCACAGGCCTGGAGCCTCACGCTGGCTGCTCACAGGTGGTGGAGAAGATACCACTGCCCTTTTTTGCCATGTCCCTGAGCCTGTCCCCCGGGACCCACCTCCTGGCTGTTGGCTTTGCTGGTGAGTGCTGGTGGATGCAGTTTGGGCCTGTCTTAGGTGGGGGCCAAGTGGGctgactggtgccctgttccaagacaggtgcctcacctgtgccccgggctcctcgtctctggggtggggtgaggacatctgccctagagagggtcctggagtcaggagatgatgaggcaggtgaggaaccaggcacagcgcccagcacaGGGCCTGAATGCACGGGTGGCAGCGACTTTTAAGGAGGGAACTGGCCCAGCTGCAGGCCGACAGCCTGGCAGTGATGGACCCCCTAGTCCCAGTGGCACGTGGAGGGCACAGCCAGGAGCCCTTTTAGCACCAGCTCCCCCGACCAGCATCATGCCCAGTGGGGACAGTCTGGGTGGGTTGGGGGAGCCCTCTGAGTGCTGCCTGGTCCTGGCCCTGGCCCACCTGCACCGTCTACCCACAGAGTGCATGCTGAGGCTGGTAGACTGTGCCATGGGGACTGCCCAAGACTTTGCCGGCCACGACAACGCAGTGCACCTGTGCAGGTTTACACCGTCCGCCAGGCTGCTCTTCACGGCCGCCCGCAACGAGATCCTTGTGTGGGAGGTCCCCGGCCTCTGAGATGCAGCAGGGACTGTGGTGGTGGGCATCACGCCTGGTCATGCCAGGCACCTGGACACAGGCTTGGCAGAGGCGCCAGGTTGTCAATGGCCTCATGCTGGGACAGGCCAGGATTCACGTAAATCGCCTGGAGCAAGCTGTTGTAAATTTGGCGCCCTGTGAATACTTTCATACCTGTTGCCCTTTTGCCTAAGAAATCTTTAATGTTTCTATCTTGTAATAAACATGGGCATTTATTGCATTATTGCTGCATTGTTGCACTGGCTGTCTCTGGTCACTCCTGGCCTGAGCTCAGCCTCTGCCCGTCCCTTAATCGGCTGTTTGTCAAGGCCCCTGTGGTGCCGTGAAGCAATGGCCGCTCGGCCTGCCAGGGCGCCAGGACCCTGCGCTGTCCGCCGTGGCCGGCGCGTCCACACGGTGGCGCGCCGCACAGCCTGTCCGCTCTGGCCCGCCCGGCTCgctggtgcggctgtgcgggcggggccggaagtgtggggacagcgcggggccgagaaccggaagtgcggggcgggcgcgggggcagagcgaaaggcttgaggaccaggtcggggccgggttccgggtcggggagcggCTCCGGGCGGCAGCTATGAGGCGGGACGTGCGCATCCTGTTACTGGGCGAGGGTAGGCGCCGGCCCGGGGGTCTCGGAGCTGCGGCGGCCGTGAGGCGGGGTGAGGGTCTCGGGGGTCGGGGGGCGCCGTGACCTTGGCCCTCGCGCTGACCGCCTCGCCCCGCGCAGCCCAGGTGGGGAAGACGTCGCTGATCCTGTCCCTGGTGGGCGAGGAGTTCCCCGAGGAGGTAAGGGGCACGCCCGCCGCGGGGGTGGGAGCGGGCCCAGCCGGGGGTCCCTGGTGAGCGCGCGGGTCCCTTGCAGGTCCCTCCCCGCGCGGAGGAGATCACCATCCCCGCGGACGTCACCCCGGAGAAGGTGCCCACCCACATCGTGGACTACTCAGGTAGCGGCCGTAGCCTCCCGGGGGCCCGGCCCGCAGCGGTCCGGCGGGCCTGCTGGGTCCGCAGTGGAGTCTCTTTGTCCCCCTAGAAGCCGAGCAGACGGACGAGGAGCTGCGGGAGGAGATCCACAAGGTACCCGTGGTGCGCGGGACGAGGGAGGGGCTGGGCGCGGGCTCGGCCTAATCCGCTTCGCAGCCTGGGGGATTGGACCGAGGTGCTCCGGGTGTCCTTGGCCCTGATAATTCTGTGACCTCCGCACTGAGGGTTGTCGGGGCCCCTACAGCGCACCCCGCTGGGAGCCGGCACCGCTCAGTCCAGTGGTGCTCCAGGGATAACAGGACCCTTCCCCGCGGGCTCTCCCTCCCTCCTGCCGGGGTGGCAGCAGCGTTTGCTCTTCCTGTGGGCTCTGTGTGCGCCACGTCCCCGTGCTGTGTGCTCCAGCCCACCGTCCCGGCCTCCGGGCACCCGGAGCTCCCAGTACCAGAGCACGTGTGCCGGGGACATCTCCAGGCAAGGGCACAGGCCACAGCCACCCAGGGCAGCCCCTGCTGTTGGCACCCCTCACTGCGGTCCTGTCACTCTGTCTGTAGCGAGGGGGGAGGCAGGGGCCAAGGCGGCGGCTGTCTTGCAGGGTGTTGGGTTGCAGGTGTGGCCGTGTCTGTCCTGAGCCCTCTGCTCCAAGGGTCTTGCTGACCACAGTTATGCTTCTGGGGCCTGGTGTCCCTGCACTGGCAGTGGGCGGGGAAGAGGCTTCTCTGAGGGTTCAGCAGCAGCTCCCAGTGTGACACTGGGGAGTGCCTGCTCTGCCAACACCAGGCTGGAGGCAGGTTTTAGGGAAGGCTGGGCTTTCCCGGCCTCAGAGCTGCACCCATGCTACCTGTGAGCTTCTGGGGCCTCCTGGAGCCTCGAGATGGCGTGGAACGGCCAGGGTCGTCGGTGGTGAGCCAGCAGCCCTGTCACCCACACCTCATCACTGTTCCCTCAGGCAAACGTGGTGTGTGTGGTGTATGACGTCTCTGAGGAGGCCACCATTGAGAAGGTGAGCCCTCAGTGCAGACCCCAACAGCAGAGACACAGTGGCCGGTGGTGGCCCAGGTGGACCTTCACCCAACCCGTGGCCAGTGCCATCGCTCACAGCATTTTGGGGAGCCTGACGTGGAGTTGCCTGACGTGGAGTCACCCGGCCCTCTCCTGTGATCCCACTTCCCCTGAGAGGGTCTGGGGCGTCCCGCAGTCTGAGCCATTGAGGCCGGCAGTCCTCTTTCTTCCCCAGTTTCCAAACCCCCGGGGGGGGACCCGCAGAGGGCCTGCGTTGGGGGCGGCCCTAGGCTTGGGCCCCAGTGACTTGGGGGTGTTTGGGAGCCATTGGGGTCAGACAGATGAGGCTGCACCTGCTGCCTGCCTTCTCCCACCAGCTTTGTTCCTGTGGCCGGGACTTGGGCCCTCAGTGGGCCTTGACCTCCCCCTTCTGCTCTCCCCCAGCCAGGCTCATGCTCCAGCTGGGAGCCATGTGCCCGCGGGCAGCCTCACTTCACAGCCAGGCTTTGCTTTTCAGATTCGAACTAAGTGGATCCCACTGGTGAATGGGGGGACCACGCAGGGGCCCAGGTAATGAGGGGATGTGGAAGGGGCTGGGACCCCTGGCTCCCCTGCCCCTGGTGACCATGGGCCTTCAACCCAGGGTGCCCATCATCCTAGTGGGCAACAAGTCAGACCTGCGGTCGGGGAGCTCCATGGAGGCCGTGCTCCCCATCATGAGCCAGTTTCCCGAGATTGAGACCTGCGTGGAGGTGAGTAGGTCCCAGGCAGGGCCGCCTCCTTCATTCCTTGTGTTCTCAGTCGGTGCCCTCCTCGGGGCACTTCCCTGAGGCTGTTCCCACTTTCCCAGTGTTCGGCCAAGAACCTGAGGAACATCTCAGAGCTGTTCTACTACGCCCAGAAGGCCGTCCTGCATCCCACAGCCCCCCTCTATGACCCTGAGGCCAAGCAGGTGAGCATCGGCTGGGGCCCCGCACGCTGGTTCCCCAGGGGCCCAGGGGGTGCTGGGTGGGGCGGTGTGGCAGGTCGGCGTGGGTCACCTGAGGGTGCTGAGCCAACATCCCCACAGTTGAGGCCCGCGTGCGCCCAGGCGCTGACGCGCATCTTCAGGCTCTCAGATCAGGACCTGGACCAGGCGCTCAGTGACGAAGAGCTCAACGCTTTCCAGGTGTGCCCCTGCCCCACCCTCGGTGCCCAGCCCCCTTGAACCTCCGCTGCCGTTAGTGACTGGAACGGGTCGTCTCCGGGTGGCTGGCTGACTCCCAACAACGTTCTCTCGGAAGCAGAAATCCTGCTTTGGGCACCCCCTGGCCCCGCAGGCCCTGGAGGACGTGAAGACGGTGGTGTGCAGGAACGTGGCGGGCGGCGTGCGGGAGGACCGGCTGACCCTGGATGGTGAGGCCGGGTGCCCGCCTGTGCCTGGGGAGTGTGGGGAGGGGGCTGTGCCTGGTGCTCCCCCTGCTTTGTCTCGGTGCAGGTTTCCTCTTCCTGAACACGCTCTTCATCCAGCGCGGCCGGCACGAGACCACCTGGACCATCCTGCGGCGCTTCGGCTACAGCGATGCCCTGGAGCTGACTGCGGACTATCTCTCCCCTCTGTGAGTGATGCCGGGGCTTGAGGCCTGCCCTCCCCGAGGGTCAGGAGCTGACTGCCGACTATCTCTCCCCTCCATGAGTGACGCTGGGGTTTGAGGCCTGCCCTCCCTGAGGGTCAGTGAAGGTCTCGCTCAGCAGGCCATCTGGGGTCGTGCCCTTGCCTGGCTGTGCCCTGAACCCCTCAGCATCCACAGAGCTCTGAGTCGGGGGGTGGGGGGGCTGGCCCTTTGCCAACCCCGCTCGCGTGGCTTGTTTACCCTGCTGGGGTCGGCAGCTTGGGGTGTGGCCTGTGGGCCTCAGCCAGGCCTCCCACGTGCTGGAGCCAGGTGGGCACCCTCCTCCCCTATCGCAGCTGCAAGGTCGGGGGCGTACAGGAGCCTCTGGGTCCTGTAGGGAGGGTCCGGCTGCACCGATGGGGCTGGCAGGGTGACAGATGGGCTGAGCGTGGTGCTGCAGAGTCTCCTGGGAGCTAGACGGGCTGTGGCCTCCCTGCAGGATCCACGTGCCCCCCGGCTGCAGCACGGAGCTCAACCACCTTGGCTACCAGTTTGTGCAGAGAGTGTTTGAGAAGCACGACCAGGTGAGAGCATGGCGAGTcccctgcccctgcccccgccccctccccggcACACACATCACCACATCCCTCCTTCTGCAGGACCGCGACGGCGCCCTCTCGCCCGTGGAGCTGCAAAGCCTTTTCAGTGTGTTCCCAGCAGCGCCCTGGGGCCCCGAGCTCCCACGCACAGTCCGCACAGAGGCCGGCCGGTTGCCCCTGCACGGATACCTCTGCCAGTGGACGTAAGTGCGGCCCACACCATGCCCGCCTGCCGCACCACCCTCCCCACCATAACACTGTGCCTGCCTCCCGCCCACCCCCAGCCTGGTGACCTACCTGGACGTCCGGAGCTGCCTTGGACACCTAGGCTACCTGGGCTACCCCACCCTCTGTGAGCAGGACCAGGCCCATGCCATCACAGGTAGGCACCCACCCTCCCTGGGCCTGGGCCCAGTATCCTGGCAGCTGCCCTAACCCGTGTCTATCCTCACAGTCACTCGTGAGAAGAGGCTGGACCAGGAGAAGGGACAGACGCAGCGGAGCGTCCTCCTGTGCAAGGTGGTAGGGGCCCGTGGAGTGGGCAAGTCTGCCTTCCTGCAGGCCTTTCTCGGCCGCGGCCTGGGGGTAAGCACCCTAGACTCCCCCACCACCCCAGGGGCTCCAGGGGCAGGGCAGGGCAATCTGGGGGGCACTGCAGCCAGCGAGTGTCAGGACTTCACCTCCCTCAGCACCAGGACACGAGGGAGCAGCCTCCCGGCTACGCCATCGACACGGTGCAGGTCAATGGACAGGAGAAGTACTTGATCGTGAGTGCTGGGGCGGCGCGGCCTGTGCCCGAGGGTGGACCCGGGGACACCCAGGCCTGCCTGGCAGATCTGGCCCAGCATGGCCCTAGGGGGACCGAGCCCCAGGGACCCTTCCTAAGGCCGCTGTCTGTCCCAGCTCTGTGAGGTGGGCACAGATGGTCTGCTGGCCACATCGCTGGACGCCACCTGTGACGTTGCCTGCTTGATGTTTGATGGCAGTGACCCAAAGTCCTTTGCACATTGTGCCAGCGTCTACAAGGTGGGGCCCTGCAGGGGCCACGTGGCCATGGGGCAGGGTCTGTCCCTCCAGCTGTGCCTCGGCCACCCCAGGACTGTACCTCATACCACTCTCTGCCCACAGCACCATTACATGGACGGGCAGACCCCCTGCCTCTTTGTCTCCTCCAAGGCCGACCTGCCCGAAGGTGTCGCGGTGTCTGGCCCATCACCGGCCGAGTTTTGCCGCAAGCACCGGCTACCCGCTCCCGTGCCGTTCTCCTGTGCTGGCCCAGCCGAGCCCAGCACCACCATCTTCACCCAGCTCGCCACCATGGCCGCCTTCCCGTGGGTACCCAGTAGCGCAGCCCTGGGGACTAGCAGTGTCTGTCATCCGAGCAGTGGGCAGCGGTGGTGTCAGGCCTGGAACTGGGGACTAGCAGTGTCTGTCATCCGAGCAGTGGGCAGCAGTGGCGTCAGGCCTGGAACTGGGGCCAGAGTGGCGGGGTGGAGCTTTGTGTGGCAGAGGGAGGCAGTGCCCAGGCATGTCCCTCCAGGGCCTGGCCTCCACCGGCTGTGCCTCTGGTCTGGGATCCCCGCCTGTGGGGCCCTGTGAGTCCAGGACATGGGAGGGTGCCCAGCAGCAAGCTGGGGGCATGTGCCTGAGGTATCTGCAGATGATTCTTCTCTCTTGCAGACATTTGGTCCACGCAGAGCTGCATCCCTCTTCCTTCTGGCTCCGGGGGCTGCTGGGGGTTGTCGGGGCCGCCGTGGCCGCAGTCCTCAGCTTCTCACTCTACAGGGTCCTGGTGAAGAGCCAGTGAGGCCCCTGGTACCCAAGCCCCCTCCCCTGACCTGGGTGTGCCTCGCTGCTGGGGCTCTGCAGGGGCAGCACAGCTGGGGTGCAGGCCAGGCTGCCACTCCGGGAACGCCTTTGCGCCGGGACTTTTTGTTTCTGAAGGCAGTCGATCTGCAGCGGGGCCTTATGCTGCCATGCACTGCCCTGGCTCCTGCCGGACCCCCAGGGTGGGCCGTGGCAGGTGGCTGAGCAGGAGCTCCCAAGTGCCGGCCACCGCTGTCAGGGATTGCCCACCCCTGGGCATCATGTGTGTGGGGCCGGGGAGCACAGGTGTGGGAGCTGGTGACCCCAGACCCAGAATTCTCAGGGCTCTACCCCCCTTTCCTGGTCCTAGGTGGCCAGTGGGTATGAGGAGGGCTGGAAGGCAGAGCTTTGGGCCAAAAGCAGGCGTTGGGGGGTCCCCCCTCAAGTTTGGAGCCGTTTCCGTGGTTGTAGCAGAGGACCGGAGGTTGGGTTCCTGATTAAACTTCACTGTGTGTTTTCTATCTCGGATCCCAGTCTCTGAAGACAACTTGCTTTGATTCAACCTAGAATGTGTTGTTTGTCTTTATGTGGGCTGGAAACGCCACCCCTCCTTTCATTCCTGGGTCACTGTTCTGAGGTCTCAGGCGTGTGCATATGGCCTCTGGAAGGTCCACTCTGGGCTGCTGTGGCCTGGGAGCCCAGTGTCCTTGGAGGTCCTGCGGTCTGGGAGTGGGAGCCCACTGCGGGAGGACGGTGCGCGCCCGGCATGGACTGGGGGGCGCCGGTGCCTGAGATGTTTCCCCGGTGACTGACCCCTTCTCAGGGTCCAGTGTGCCCTGGCACTGCCCACTCACTCCCCAGAGCGTCCTGCCAGCCTGGCTGAGCTGCGCCGAGAACCTGGGCTTGTGTGACCAGATGTGGTCACTGCCTGCCACAGAACGGGGTGACCCTGGGGCCCTGACCTGAGGGAAGCAGGATGGGCCAGAGGGAGGGACGGGCTGGGAGTTGAGCCCAGATGCCTGCTTCTCGGGACCCAGGGCGTGGCCTTCCCAAGGTCACCCGGACAAGTATCAGAAGGCCTGGTCCCCCCCCTCCCATGTCTGCCTTTAGGGAGTGGCAGGTGGGGCCCCTTCCCAAGTCCTGGCCCACACGGGCCCTGCCTTGGAGCTTGTGGCATTGGCCCCTGAGGTCCCTCCCGACTGATGGTATTTGAGCCCGCTGTACCCCCACGGCCTGTCTTCTGGGACTACTGCAACCCTAGGAGAAGCCCTCTGAGTGGCCCTTGCAGGGGCTGCCATAGTCACACGTGTCTTATCTGTCACCTCCATTGTGGAGGGGTTGGCCCGCCTTCCCAGGAGCAGGTCCCCTCATCCCAACTGCAGCCCTGCCCCCTGGGGGTTCTGCTCTGTGTTGGAATGCCCCTTGTGCCCAGCCCTGGCGCCGCCTTAGGGCGGGAGGTTTTGCTGTCCTGCATGGAGTTGCAAGAGTGGTCAGGGGCCTCCAGCCCAGGGTGTGGACGAGTGGGCTGGGCTTGGTCGTCAGAGCCAAGGCGGCTGCAGCAGCGTCTTCCTCCTCCTAAGAGGCGGCTGTAGTGGCCATGCGGGACGAGGGACTTCCTTGCTGCTGCGCTCGGTGGGGGGTTGCGGGGGGAGGGGGTGTGTCTGCTGCAAGCAGGGAGCTCCAGCCGGTGGCAACATGAACCgcagggagtactgggtcagcctggagggggagcaagcagtggtcagggaaggcttcctggaagaggtggcatcctcacaggcctgagcccgggaaggcTGTGAGAGGGCGAACGGTCTTGCATGGGGGGTTTTAGGTGCCCCCCATCCCCGTGACTCCATTTACCAGCGGCTGCCGTGGAGGTAGTCCAGTGTGCTGGAGCTGCGCCAGAGCGGGGGTGGGGGCCGGCGCTGAGACGCGGTGCTAGCTGGAGGCGGTTCCTGTCCGGGGTGTGCGTCCGCGTGCAGGGTGCGCGCGTGTCTTGGCCGCGCGTGGCGGCGTGTGCGGCAGGGGCGGGCAGGCGGGCGACTCGGTGACGCGGCCCAAGCgcggcgccgagcggagcgggcggagcgggccggctggggcggagcggagTCGTCCGCAGAGCAGCCCCTcccggccgcggccgccgaccccggaccccggcccccggccAGGCTCTATGGACAGGAGCTCGCTGCTGCAGCTCATCCAGGAGCAGGTGCGTCGGGGGGTGGTCTGGGGAGCTGGCACCGCCCCCAATGCGGCCCTCCTGCCGCTGAGCTGAGCTTGTGCGGGACCGAGCTCCCCGAAAGCCCCGCTCGGTACCTACCTCATCCCTCCACGACCTTGGTCCGTGTGTCTGGGACCCCAGGAGAGGACTGACTGGACCAGAGCTCCTGGCTGGAGAagggagagtcggggggagggagggagggagggagggagggcgggCAGCTGGCTGGTCTTGGACCTTGGCCCTCGCTTTCCAGGATGGGTAGGGTGGAAGACGGGGGAACAACTGAGGAGCTGGAGGACTGGGACCCAGGCACCAGTGCCCTGCCAGCTCCTGGGATCAAGCAGGGTCCCAGGGAACAGACAGGCACGGGGCCCCTGTCCCAAAAGTGCTGGGAGCCTGAGCCTGATGCTCCCAGCCAGCCTGGCCCAGCCCTTTGGTCCAGGGGTCGGGCCCGCACTCAGGCCTTGGCTGGCGGCTCCTCACTGCAGCAGCTGGACCCCGAGAACACAGGCTTCATCGGTGCGGACACCTTCACTGGCCTGGTGCACAGCCATGAGCTGCCCCTGGACCCGGCCAAGCTGGACATGCTGGTGGCCCTGGCTCAGAGCAACGAGCAGGGCCAGGTCTGCTACCAGGAGCTGGTGGACCTGGTCAGTGCCACGGTGGGCAGGCGGCAGGGGCACGGTGTCCTGGCCAGAGGAGGCGGGCAGGCAGCTCCTCACGGCGGTGGGTGGGGGGCTTGTGGATGCGGGGAGCTGGGTGAGCCTCACAGGCAGGGGTGCCATGGGGAGGTCCGTGGCCCACACTCAGGCCCCTGCCCCCAGATCAGCAGCAAGCGCTCCAGCAGTTTCAAGCGGGCCATTGCTAACGGACAGCGGGCACTGCCCCGGGACGGGCCGCTGGATGAGCCAGGCCTAGGTGTCTACAAGCGGTTTGTGCGTTACGTGGCCTACGAGATCCTGCCTTGTGAGGTGGACCGCCGCTGGTACTTCTACCGTCACCGCAGCTGCCCACCCCCCGTGTTCATGGCCTCGGTCACTCTTGCCCAGGTGGGCCCCCCGGCCGCTGCCCCGGGAGCCTCCCGCGCTCCTGGCCATGACCAGCCTAACACTCGTGTCCCCAGATCATCGTGTTCCTGTGTTACGGGGCCCGCCTCAACAAGTGGGTGCTGCAGACCTACCACCCCGAGTACATGAAGAGCCCCCTTGTGTACCACCCCGGGCACCGTGCCCGCGCCTGGCGCTTCCTCACCTACATGTTCATGCACGTTGGGTGAGTAGCACTGCTGCCCGGTGAGCCCCGCCCCAACCTGCCATTACATCAGAAAGGCTTAGCCGCAAGGCAGGTGCGGCAACTTGAGGTGACGGCTGGGGGTGGGGCCGGATGGCTGACCCCACCCTTCGTACCCGTTTGCTTCCCTGTGGCCAGGCTGGAGCAGCTGGGGTTCAACGCCCTCCTGCAGCTGATGATCGGGGTGCCCCTGGAGATGGTGCACGGCCTGCTCCGCATCAGCCTGCTCTACCTGGCAGGCGTGCTGGCAGGTGAGGCAGGCGCGCACCCCCGCCCCCTGCCCTGGCCGGCTGCACCCTCACCCGCCGCTTGCTCACACAGGCTCCCTAACCGTCTCCATCACCGACATGCGGGCCCCGGTGGTGGGAGGCTCCGGCGGGGTCTACGCCCTGTGCTCGGCACACCTGGCCAACGTTGTCATGGTAACGGGCCTGCCCGGTGGGGGGCGTGGGGAGGGGCCCCAGGTGAGCCTCACCACTTCTCGTCTGCACACACCCATAGAACTGGGCTGGGATGAGATGTCCCTACAAGTTGCTGAGGATGGTGCTGGCCTTGGTGTGCAGTGAGTAGGGGCCGGGGGGAGGGCCGGGGGGCCTCTCAGCCTGCAGCCAGGGCACCTCCCACCTGCCGCGTCCCTCTGCAGTGAGCTCCGAGGTGGGCCGGGCCGTGTGGCTGCGCTTCTCCCCGCCGCTGCCCGCCTCGGGCCCACAGCCCAGCTTCATGGCGCACCTGGCAGGCGCGGTGGTGGGGGTGAGCATGGGCCTGACCATCCTGCGGAGCTACGAGGAGCGCCTGCGGGACCAGTGCGGCTGGTGGGTGGTGCTGCTGGCCTACGGCACCTTCCTGCTCTTCGCCGTCTTCTGGAACGTCTTCGCCTACGACCTGCTGGGCGCCCACATCCCCCCACCGCCCTGACCGGCTACCTGAGGCTGCACAGGCCAGGGCTCGGGCATGTGGTGGCCGCCCACCAGGGGCCTTCACGTCTGCCCTTTGTGAACGGACGTCTCAGGGCTGCTGTGCCCCTTGGGTGTGGGTGGCCTCAAAGGAGGCCCTGTCCCAGCCACCCACCCCCCACTCCCAGGACTTGCGGTCTGAGCCTTTTTGGATAATTAATAAATATTTTACACAGCACCAGGGGGCTGTCCCGGGCTCTGGAGACTCGTCAGGGCCCCCACACCTGCTGCACAGACCGCGACGGCCCTCCCCACCACGGGGGCCTGGACTTCCCTCCTTGTGCATCTCTGCACCTGGGGTCAGGCGTGGGAGTTGTTCCTGGGCCACAGGTGCTGTGTCTGTGGGAGCTGGGGGCACGCGGGATGGCTGGGGGCCGGGCGTGTGGTCAGGCCAGGTGTGTGGTCAGGCCGGGTGTGTGATCAGGCGTGAGTTTGGGAAGTGTTTATTGAGCTCCCGTAGTGGCCAGCCTCCTCTTCAGCCTCCCTGCCGTCCAGTGAGACCCGGAGGCCTGAGGTTCTGTGGCAGGTGAGCAGGCCTGGGCCATGGCCAAGTTTACTCGGCCTGGGTTCCATGCTTCTTGGCTGGCCTAGCATCCTCGTGGGTGGCCAGGCTGGGGCCAAGGTTGGGCAGCAGGTCTGGGCACAGCCTCTGCCCCACAGCCCAGGTCCACAGTGCTGTCTCCACTAGGTAGGGAGTCCACTGTCCTGAGGCACTGGCTAGGGAGGGGCACACGGACTCAGGCCCAGGGGCACGGGCCACCCCAACCTGCCCACACACAGTTCATTCCCCTTGGCTCAGAGCTGTGGCCCGCTCTTGAACCTGGCCCAGGTACAGCAGGTAGTACCTGAGGGTGTACTGTGGGGCCGGCCAGCCGGGCACTGTGGCCACCGCCTCATCTGACATGAAGGCCTCCATCTCTGGAGCTCCAGCTGCCAGGACTGCTGTGAACAGCGAGGAGAAGCAGCCAGACACACCCCATCAGGACAAGCTCTGGGAGACCCTGCTCCCAGCAGCCCAGGGCCCTATGGTTCCTGCTCCTAGCGACACGCAAGGGCCCAGACTGCCCGCTTCACAGACAAGAACGCCTATGTACCCAAGTCGTGCCCACCCAACTCACCCGAGGCTGTGGTGGGCCCACACCGCAGAGGGCACACAGCTCGGTGACTGCAGCCCCCACATCTGGCAGGAGGCAGAAGGTGGCGGTCGAACAGTGCACAACCAGCTCAGGGGGATTGGTGGCCACCAGCTGCTGCAGACGTGGCCGGAAGCGCCCCTCTGTGGGAGGCCAGGTCAGGGTGCCTGGGGTGCTGGACCCACCAGGGAGGCCCCGCCCCCACTGGAGACACCCGCCCCGCCGATGCCACGCCCCAATGAAGACCCGCGCTACGGAGGCCCTGCCCTCGGGGCGGGCCGCCCTTCACAGTCAAGCTGCCAGGCCAGCAGCCGCTCCAGCTCCCTGTCACATGCTTCTCTGCTCTGCCCCTGATGGCCGCTGGCAACTCTTCCCGATACCTGAGGAAGGGCGGTGAGGGGAGGACTGGCCACGGAGGACGCTCGCCCCACCGATCTCTATCCCCTTCCACTCTACCAACAGTCCGGGGCTTCCAGCCGCCCTCGGGGGCTCGCGCTCGCCCGTAGCACCTCTCGTGGCGCTCCAGAATGGCAGCCCAGCGACTGGGGTCCTCACACCCCACAGCGCGTGGGAAGCCGCTACGTTCACGCGCAGGGGCGGGAGGCGGCGGCTGGGGGCGGGGCCTCTGCTGAtggggccgggtgctgggggcggggcctctggattgggcggttgctgggggcggggcctctgcggatggggctgggggcggggcctctgctgatggggccggcggctgggggcggggcctctggattgggcggctgctgggggcggggcctctgcggatggggccggctgctgggggcggggcCTCTGGATGGGGCCGGCTGCCGGGGGAGGGGTCTCTGCGCGTTGGGACAGGGGCGGAACCCCAGGTGGTCGGGACAGGCTGTTGCGGGAGCGCGCCCTCAGCGAAGCAAGTGAGGCATCTCACTGGGAAAGTCGAATGTGTGTGGCGGCCGCCGCCGAGGCGGGTTCCGAAGAGACCTCAGCAGGGCAGGCCAGGGCCTACGCGAACGCCCACCCTTAAGAGCGCGGGGACAGGGAACTGGAGCGTTCCTCCCAGCCCCCGACGTCGCGGGCCCAGTGTCCCCGTCCAGGCTGGTTGGGCGCACGCGCGGCCCCACTCGCCCCCACGCGTGCGTCCCCGCTGGTCCCGCCCCCGGCCGGAAGTTCCGGCGGCGGAGCTGGGCCGGGCCCGAGCGGATCGCGGGCTCGGGCTGCGGGGCTCCGGCTGCGGGCGCTGGGCCGCGAGGCGCGGAGCTTGGGAGCGGAGCCCAGGCCGTGCCGCGCGGCGCCATGAAGGGCAAGGAGGAGAAGGAGGGCGGCGCACGGCTGGGCGCTGGCGGCGGAAGCCCCGAGAAGAGCCCGAGCGCGCAGGAGCTCAAGGAGCAGGGCAATCGTCTGTTCGTGGGCCGAAAGTACCCGGAGGCGGCGGCCTGCTACGGCCGCGCGATCGTGAGTgcgcccgcgcggggagggcggcggcggtggcaccggggagggccgggcccgggcccggccggccccACCGAGGGTCTGGCTCCTCTTCGGGGCGTGTCCTCGGCTCCCAAAGCCCAGCCGTGGTTCTCGAGCCCAGCGCCGGGTGCCGGAGAACGAGGGTGCGATGCTGGATGGAGGCCGGCCGGGTGGGGGGAGGGCAGGGGCCCTCGACCCTTGAGGACCCCAGGTCCTAAGCCCGGACTCTCCAAAGATTTGGAAAACTTTACAAAACCAAGTGGAATCAAGCGGATAGGCTCAGCCAGTACTCCACTGTGCACAGATCCTTGGACCCAGGGGCTTTGACAACTGAGAAACCTAGTTTCTTGATTCTAGCCAGAGCGCAGAAGCTGGGACGGGCCGTGGGTCAGAGTGGGCACGCTGAGCCTACGCCCTCATGCGGCTGGCCCGGCCTTGGTCCCTAGACCCGGAACCCGCTGGTGGCCGTGTATTACACCAACCGGGCCTTGTGCTACCTGAAGATGCAGCAGCACGAGCAGGCCCTGGCCGACTGCCGGCGCGCCCTGGAGCTGGACGGGCAGTCTGTGAAGGCGCACTTCTTCCTGGGGCAGTGCCAGCTGGAGATGGAGAGCTATGATGAGGCCATCGCCAATCTGCAGCGAGGTTGGCTGACAAGCTGCCCGGTTGTGGGGCCTCTGGGGCCAGGCGGGTGGACTGGCCAGAGAGTGACGTGAAGCCCCCGTTCCCCAGCTTACAGCCTGGCCAAGGAGCAGCGGCTGAACTTCGGGGACGACATCCCCAGCGCTCTTCGAATCGCGAAGAAGAAGCGCTGGAACAGCATTGAGGAGCGGCGCATCCACCAGGAGAGCGAGCTGCACTCCTACCTCTCCAGGCTCATTGCCGCGGAGCGTGAGAGGTGGGACCCTCACCCCAGGCCGCCCTGTCTTGGGATAATTCTGAATCACCGACTCCCGACACAAGCGTTTATCGAAGGCTTTACTGGCAAGCAGGAAATGTGGGGAAGTGTGGATGTTAGCTCTGAGATTGGGGTGTGGTCAGACATCTGGCCAGGTCCATCTCTGACCGGCTCCTGGTCAACCCCCAGGGAGCTGGAAGAGTGCCAGCGAAACCACGAGGGTGATGAGGACGACAGCCACGTCCGGGCCCAGCAGGCCTGCATTGAGGCCAAGCACGTGAGGGTGCCCCCCACCCACATGTGGGTCTGTGTGTGTGCACGTGGCGTGGGAGCATCCCCGCCTTGTGTTGGGTCTGTGCCCCATGGAGGAGGGAGGTGGGGTGTCTCCCCCAAGCACAGCACTCAACTCTTCACAGGACAAGTACATGGCGGACATGGACGAGCTTTTTTCTCAGGTGGATGAGAAGAGGAAGGTGAGTGTGTGTCGCTTGCTGCCGATGGCTGGCAGGTGCTCGTGCAGTGCCCCTTTTCAGCCTCTGACCGTGTGCCCCTGTGCCACAGAAGCGAGACATCCCCGACTACCTGTGTGGCAAGATCAGCTTTGAGCTGATGCGGGAGCCGTGCATCACGCCCAGTGGCATCACCTACGACCGCAAGGACATCGAGGAGCACCTGCAGGTGAGGCCTGCGGCTGGGGGAGCAGGGCCAGTGGCATGGTCCTGGGCCCCATGACTGCCCTCTGCCCTTCTTGTCACTGCAGCGTGTGGGTCATTTTGACCCCGTGACCCGGAGCCCCCTGACCCAGGAACAGCTCATCCCCAACTTGGCTATGAAGGAGGTTATTGACGCATTCATCTCTGAGAATGGCTGGGTGGAGGACTACTGAGGTTCCCTGCCCTACCTGGCGTCCTGGTCCAGGGGAGCCCTGGGCAGAAGCCCCCGGCCCCTATACATAGTTTATGTTCCTGGCCACCCCGACCGCTTCCCCCAAGTTCTGCTGTTGGACTCTGGACTGTTTCCCCTCTCAGCATCGCTTTTGCTGGGCCGTGATCGTCCCCCTTTGTGGGCTGGAAAAGCAGGTGAGGGTGGGCTGGGCTGAGGCCATTGCCGCCACTATCTGTGTAATAAAATCCGTGAGCACGAGGTGGGACGTGCTGGTGTGTGACCGGCAGTCCTGCCAGCTGTTTTGGCTAGCCGAGGAAGGTGGAGATGAAGACGCTGGTGTCAAGGTTGAGCGTAGCATGCCACCAGCGGTCGGGGAAGTACAGCACCTGGTGGAGGAAGGGGGTGCAGCAGAGATTAGCTGCGGGCCTCTAGCCTGGCCTGGCCCTCTCCTGCCAGCCACTGACCTCACCAGCCCGGATGGTACACTCCAGGGGCCGTGCAGACGGTGGCAGGGCTGGGTATGTGTCCCGGAGCCAGGCCAGCGTGGTCTTGTTGGGGTGGAACTCTGGCGTCTTCTCAGGTGGGTAAAGGAACCAGCGCTGGGGGCATGAGCAGCAGTGTCACCCTTGCCCGTTTTGGTCAGCGAGTCCCAAGCCTCAACCCCCACCCCGTGCTGACCTTACGACCGTAGATCACTTCTGAGTACCCGGGTCCATGCCAGTGGAAGGGCACCCCCGAGCCAGCTCCTGTGGGGTTATGAGCACCTGGTGACCAACCCATTTTGTACTCACCGACAGAAGCCTCAGTCCTTCCCAGTCCCAAGAAGCACCCACCTGCGATTCCAAAGCTGTAAGCTGGAGCGGTTCCCAGCAGGCCAAATGGGGGTGGGGAGTAGTGCCGAAAGAGAGAGGCCCACTCGGTGAAGTTGTTGTCCCCGAAGAAGTACAGGGTGTCTGCCAACAGAGACGGCGGGGACAGGGATCCTGGCACCTGGAGACTCCAAGCGTCCCCACCCCCTACCGCCGCCTAGGGCTGCCTCACCATTGCCCAGGGAGGTGGGGTCCTGGGGGTGCAGCAGCTGCTCCACATACTCCTGGAAGGGCAAGTCCACTGCAGGAAAGAGACGGGTCAGGACCGTCTGGTCCAGCCGCCCCGGTGTTGGCAAATGGGCGGGCCCCAGGGGTGAGGCCGCGTACCTTTGTGGTAGGAGTAGGTGTTGGCGGTGCTCAGCCGGACCACTCTGTCCCCAAACGAAGCCAGCAACCTGTCGCGGGAGCACAGGGCCCGGAACCTCTGCGGGGGCGGGGAGGGGACTTAGTGGCCGGGCCCAGCACGGGCGAGAGTGGCCGGGGACGGACGGGCACGCGCTCACCGAGTTGTCCGTGAGTCCCTGCAGGATGACGGGCCTGACGAAGGCGTACCTGGAAAGAAGGGCAGAGTCGCGGCCAGGCCGGACCGCCAGCCTCGCCGCCCCAGCCCCACGCGTGCGCGCGAGGTCAGGGGAAGGCGGCCTTGGGCGGTCGGGGCAGACGGGCCGGTGAACAGGACGCGACCTCCGCGATCAGGGGCGCACGTACTGCTGCACGAACTCCGCGTAGGTGAGGTCGGCCCGACGCTCCACCGTGCAGCGctcctcctccgccacggcccccggcccgcccgggcgcctgcgggcacagctgggtcagcccgcgccccgcccgccgcacgtgaccccaccgcccggcccctcccgggccgctcaccacccgccgtcgccctccgccccGGAGCCGGGTAGAGCCACAGCCGCCAGCGCCCAGAGCGCGAGCAACCGCGACGCCGGCGCCATGAGCCTGCCGCCCTCAGGCAGCCGCGCTGCACGCCGGGAACCTTGGGCCCATCCGCCAGCCATTGGCCGGCAGCTTCGTCGTCGTGGCAACGGCCGGGAACCGGGACGGACCCCGGAAGTGACCTCCTTTGGCCCGCCCCGGAAGAGGCCTCTACGGGAGGCACTGGGAAGGCCGCCCCGAGAGCGACTATGGGCGCCGCCGGTTACCATGGCGACAACCCCGCCGAAAGCCCCCGCCCGCCAGCTGCCCCGCGGGCCTACGGCGAGCCCGCCGCGCTATGGGGTGACACGCAGTGCCGACAGCGGCTCTACTTCCTTTATTGAGGTCTCAAGTTCCAGCCTCCGCCCGTCTCGGGCACAAGACCAGGCGGGGTTCTGCACGCGGCCGCCCGGGCAAGCCCAGCAGATGCCCCGTCAGGAGTACTCGCAGAGGTGGCCGCAGCCTGCGGGACAGTGGGAGCTGCCTTCCAGCCACTTCATGATGTGCTGCAGGTGGCCGCCGTGGCTGCAGCCCTGGCACCACACGAAGAGACCCTTGACTACGTGGTGGCAGACGGCACACATGCTGGCGCAGCGGTGGCACCTGGGGGCGGGCGGGAGGGAGGGTGCCTCAGCGGGGGCTGCTGCGCTGCCTGCAGGCCCCTGCCCCACCTCCCGACCCCACTGCCCCACCTGTCGCAGACCCAGCCCCGGCTGCTCATGGGCCGCTTGCAGTGGCTGCAGTTGACGTGCAGGGTGGTGGAGGCCTGGTTGAGGCAGCTGACGGCGCGGCTGGTGCTCAGCTTGACCACCTCGTTGGACACGTTCCAGAGGCGGAAGCGCTGCAGCAGGTCGATGTAGGAAGTGTACCAGTGCTCCTGGGGGAGGGAGCGCCCGGCAGTCAGGATCTGGGTGCCAGGGGCGGCGCTGCAGGGGGGAGGCCCCGCCCACCACACACCTGGGTCTGCTCGTCGATGTCCTTGCGCACCCGTTCACCCAGGACGATGAGCACAGACACAGCCATCTGCACGTCGCCCTGCTCAGCGTAGAAGTGCAGCATGTCGCGCACCAGCACGCCGAAGAAGTCGGGCGGCAGGCGGCTGTCGTAGAGCGCGTGTGAGACAGACAGGAGCGAGAAGGAGGAGTCCACGGGGGCCAGGGAGGCCACATCCGCCTCGCTGCCGCTCACGTGCGGGGAGTCGGCCTTGTCCTGCAGGTGCTCGGGCCCGGGAGGCGTGTCCACGATCTCGTGGCGCAGCGGAAAGGCCTCCTGCGGCAGCACGCACTCAGGGTCCTCGGCTGGAAGGCAGGGACCAGCGGAGGCTCTGAGTCTGTCCTCCATCCGCCTCTGAACCCCACCCTGCCCGGACCCCCACTCACGGTGCGCGTGTTCCGGATCCAGCAGGTACAGCTCGTCCTCCTCACCTTCCACGTCACCCAGCAGGTAGTCGGCAGGTACGTCGCTGCCCTCGGTTTCCTCGTTATCTGCCCGACAATGGGGCGGGCATTCAGGGTCGTCTGGGACACCCCCACCCCTCTCCCATCAGCACCCCTACCCACCCCAGCCTACCCTCATTGGTGATGAGTGTGGCCGAGGAGTCGAGCAGAACTGTGTCGCTCCGTGCATCTCCTTTGCTGCGGTCCAGCCGCGTCTCACTGCCCAACCCTGGGGCCATATCCTTCAGGTTGAAACTGGGGGCAGGAAGGGCCCATGGGTGGGTGGGCTCGAGCAGCCCCAGCCCCTGGGGAGAGCTGCCCCCGGCATCTACCTGTTCATGAGCGGGAGGCCACAGGAGCCACCCTTGCCCACACTGTGGTTGAGGTTTGCAGTGGGCACTAGGCCAGGGCTGCAGTAGATGATCCGCAGCATGGTCCACGTTTGCGCCACCTAGGGGCGGGCACTGGTCACTTGTGGGCGTCCTGGACACCCAGCACCCCATGCAGGTCCCTCTCTGCCTGGACAGTCACAAGCCCTCAGCATTCAGCTGCCCTCAGTACCCAATGTCCAGGCCCACCCCAGGTAGGAAAGCTGAGGCTCATGGGAAAGACAAAAACCCCGGTCCCCGCCCTACAGCAGCACAGAGGAAAACAGAATTGGGCAGTGGGGACTTGCGGGGCAGCTAGAGATGGGCATGGGAACGGCAGCTCACGGCTCCACCGCTGCTGGTGCCTGGAGAGCTCCAGAAGCAAGGGGGGAAGAACAGAGAGCTTGAGCCACACGACTCCCGAGACCCCCGCCCCTCAGAGGACAGTCCTGGGTCTGGCCCACCCTGGAGCCCTGGCCCTGTGTGATCCTGACACCCTCAGCTACCAAGGCAAGGCCTGTTGGTGCGACTGGCTGGAGTCCATTGCGGAGCTTGAGGTGGGGTGAGCGCAGCTGACGGAGGAACCAGCCCCTGCCCTGAGGTCGTGGCCCAGGGACCCCCAGGCTCAGCACCTACCTACCTGGTTGCGGCCAAGCTCTCGAGCCACCTTTGCGTTGTGGTCACAGAGCTCGGCCAGTGGCCGGCCAGCCAGCGCATAACGCTCAGCTGTGTCCACAAACCAGCGCATGCCGCCGCCACCTGGCTCCGTCTCAAAGACACTGAGGGCACTGGAGGCGAGGCCTGCGAAGGGCTCGGCAGGGTCCAGCTTGCGCTTAAAGAAGATGGGGTGGCGCCGGTCGCCAGTGTAGGGCTTGCGCCCCGACTCGGCAGCCACGAGGCTCTCCTTGGCGGCGAAGGCCAGGTCCCCGAAGAGGCCGTAGCAGAGGCCCTCAGGGTTGGCGCGCTCGACGGGCTGGCTGGCGTCGCGGAACAGGTGCTGGCACAGCGAGCTGTCCTTGGAGCCAGACAGCAGGAAGGAGGGGTCGTGGGGGTGGCGCCAGGCAATTCCCGTGGTGACGTCTCGGTGTTCCTCAAACATGGCAGCTGGCACGAAGGGCCGGCGCACGTCCCAAACATAGATGTTGTGGTCCACCATCATGGAGCACGTGGCCAGGTGGTGGCGGCACTCTGGCCGCCACTTCACACGGGCCACCGAGGCGATGGTCTGCACACAGTGCATCTCCTTGGCACGGTGCGTGGTCATGTCCCAGACCTTCACCATCTTGTCGCGCCCTCCAGTGGCCAACCAGCCCCTGTGGGAAGAAGGTCCACCCAAACCCTCAGTGGCCTTTCCTGCAGAGAGGGGACCCCCCCGCTCTGCTGCTCCGGACTGTCTCATGGATCTGAGGCAGTGAGAGCTTACTGTCAACCTACTGCCCCTGCACCCCCATGCCACACCTGTCCTCGGGGTGCCAGTCGCAGCAGAAGACGGGTCCGTTGTGGGCTGTGAACATCCTCTCGCACCGGTCGGGACGCCGGATGTCCCAGAGCTGCACATTGCCGTTCTCAAAGGTGGAGGCGAAGGTGAAGTAGTCCCGGATACTGAACTGCACGTCCCGCACGCTCTCCGACTGGCCTGCAGGCAGGAGGTCGATGCAGGGGAAGTGACGGGGCTGGCCCATGAGGTGCGCCCTCAGAACAGCTGTGGCATGGTGTCACACACCTGCCTGTGGCCCAGAACAGAGGCCCAGAGGGTAGAGTGGACATCCCCAAGATCTGCCCAAGGAAGCAGCCACACAGAGTCGCCACAAGAGCCTGGGCCCGGGAGCAGGACACCACGTGATTTGTAACACATACTCCCGGGCGTCATTTGCCGTAGATTCTGCATCCTGCATCGGTCCATGAGCAAAGCTGTGGTGCAGCCTCAGGATGCGGCAGCTGAGCACTGGGAGAATAGGAACGCACCCAGCCATCGCCCACTCCCGTGGCCCTGTGGGAGGCCCAAGGAGGTGCTGAGGAGGGTGCCCCAGCCTTGGCCCAGTCCCTTCACCTGGAGCTGGAACTGCCTGGTCAGCCCCAAAGGACTGGATGACTCAGGGCCCAGGTCCACCCTAGGGGACCACCACACCAAGAAACTTCAAGGGCGGTACCCAACCTTCCTCCAGGGCCCTGCAGGGGAGGCAGCTCAGGATCTGtctttttagacggagtctccctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcaagtggcacgatctgggctcactgcaacctccacctcccgggttcaagcaattctcctgccccaacctcccaagtagctaggattacaggcgcgtgccactgcgcccagctaattttttgttttgtatttttagtggatatggggtttccctgtgttagccaggagggtctcaatctcctgacctcgtgatcggcctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcgccctgccAGGATCTGTCTTAAGTGGCCTGAAAATTCTCTGAGGCCCCTGAGGGCTCCGCCTTGTGCTTCATACCTAGTCTCCTCCAGGTGAACAAGGGAGAGCTGGCTCAGGGCAGCCATCGGGGAGCTGGGCCTGTTAGGAAAAGGGCCCCAGGGCACTGGACAGCAAACCCACCTCCTCTGCCTCCCTGGGCCAGGAAACCTGGAAGTCCTGGCAGACCTCCTGCTATGAGGCAGCCTCTGTAGCTCCGACATGAGGGAAGGGAGTCAGTGGCTCTCTGCTCACCACCCAGGCTGGCTGGGAGACCGCTGGGGCTCTGCCCTCCCTCACCCCACACCTAGCCTCAATTTCTGCTGGTCTCATCTCTTGCCTCTTCCCACTTGACTGCCCTGGCTCACATGCCGTCCAGCCCAACTTGCCCCATCCCTCCCCTGCCGATTCCCTTTCCCCCTGAGGAAGCCCTCTGGGAGTGATCCTGAGGGCCTCTGATGCACGGAGCCCTTTTCCGCCTGCATGGACAGGCTGGGCACCGGCAGAGACGCCCACCTGCCCTGACCTGCCTCTGTGGCCTCACCCGAGAAGGTGCTGACAGAGTCCTTTCTGCGGAGGTCAAAGCACTTCATGAAGCCATCCTGGGAGCCACTGAGCAGCACGTGGGCTTCGGTGGGGTGGAAGCAGACTTTGTTTACCGTGCGCTTGTGTTCTGTGAACAGCTGGTCCTGCTTGTTGCGGGATGGCCGGCCCAGGTTCCACGTGACCACCACGCCATTGGTGGCTGCTGTGGCCAGCAGGTTCTCATCCATCTGGTGCCAGACCACGTCAGCACAGCTCAGGTTAAGCGAAGGCTTGCGCCCCACACGCAGGTTCAGCTTTTCCACGAACTGTTCCTCCTCGATGGCATAGATCTTGAAGATGCTACGGCCTGCCACGACCACCTGGGCTGCGTCGCGGCACACACTGATGGCATTGGCGGGAGCATCCAGGTGGCAGTGCATGGTGCGGCCTGTCAGCACGCTGCCACCCAGGGCTGTGGTCACACGGGACATCTTCTCCATGGCTGCACAGGTGATGAGGTCAGGGGTCAGGAGGTCAGTGAGGTGGGCTGGCCTGGTCAGCCTGGGTGGGTCATCAGTTCAGACCTTCCACCCAGGTTGGGACCCCAGAACTGCTTGGTCCCGGGCTGGTCAGTCTTAGTGAGCCAATCCAGGGCTGTCTATCAGCCAATCAGCCTGACAGGCAAGCTCAAATTCACTGGAGTCTGTCAGTCCAGCCCATCACCCTGGCTGAGCGGTGAGGGGACTTCCTAGCTTCCCTTAGGCCTGTCAGTTTCATGTCTGACTTCCACGGAAGACTCTAGCTGGACATTCCCGGCCCAGGCCACCTCTCGGTACCCCCATCAGCCAGATCTGGGCAGTCACTAAACGCTCGGTCAGTCAATCCCAGCAGGGGAGCGAGGAGACTCCCGCCGTCCACACTGTCAGCCCTGAGGGCGGCGGGGCTCTAGGGAGGAACAAAAGAGGGGAGGGAACAGAGGGCTAGAGGGGCCCGGGGACTCAGGCGATAGACGCGGGAAGGGCCCAGAGGGACGTCAAGGACCGAGCTACTTAAGGAGCTCGAGGTGTCTGGCGGGACCGGAGGCAGGAGAGAAGCCGGCGACCCCGGAGTACAGGGTTCCTGGGAGCGGCGCAGTGGCGCGGGGGAGCGGACGCTGCGGGACGAGAACCAGAGGGCCCGGGGCAGCCCTTCTCCCCCGCGCGAACCCCAATCTTTTACTAAAAGCGCACGGTTGTCCGGAACCGCCGCGCCGGAAGCCGCTGTCTTTCCCGTCCCTCGCCGGAAGTGGTCCTCTTCTTACCCATCCCTCTCAGGAAGTGGGCACAAACTCTCGCCCGACACCACGAAAGTTCCGGGTCAGGGAGCTGCGTTGGCAGAGGCCAGGAGGGGCCCGGGATTGGGGTCTGCGGGCCGCCCTGGGCGTTGCCATTGCGCTGCGGTGCTGTGCTTGTGTGATTGGtttatttatttatttatttaAacggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtacagtggcgcgaccttggctcattgcaacctccacctcccaggttcaagcgattctcccgcctcagcctcccaagtagctggcactacaggcgcccgccaccacgcccggctaatttggctaattttgtatttttggtagacacggggtttcaccgtgttggccaggctggtcttaaaactactgaactcaagcgatcctctggcgtcagcctcctgaagtgctgggaatgcaggtgtgagccaccgcgcctggccTGTTTTTTAAGTCTCAATTTCAGTATTTTAATGCCATCACCTATTTTAATCCCCAGGTCCATCATGACATCTGGTCATCCCTAGACAAGTTCCGAGTGCCCCCAGTCTTCCCCTCCTTCCTCACTCCTCGACCTCGGGAGCAGCCTCCCAACGGCTTTCCTGGGTCCGTCTTTCCCCTTTGATCAGAAACCCGCACAGAAGTCAGGCACCAGGTCTTCTGCCTGAGGCCTCTGGCAGCTCCCACTATGCTGTGAATGAACCCCAACTCCTGGCCTCCGCCTTCCCCTGCCCACCTCCAGCCATGGCAGCCTCCACCCCCATTCCCAGCCCACCAAGCCCTTTCCTGCCTCAGGGACATTGTACGTGCGTGCGATGCCTCCTCCACAGAGCGGACCTCCCTGACCACTGCCCTAATGGGCTTCTCCATCACTGTGGCctccacggcacttgtcaccacccattcgtttgtttactggttgttgtcggtcacatacgagtgtgaattccaccaaggcaggaatcacattctggctcaatccccaccgaatgcccagtgcctgacacaCCTGTTCAACCAGTTGCTCTCGttcttttttttaaaaaactttttgagacggagtttcgctcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggtgcaatcttggctcaccgcaacctccgcctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcttcccgagtagctgggattacaggcatgggccaccatactgggctaattttgtatttttagtagagatggagtttttccatgttggtcaggctggtctcgaactcccaacctcaggtgatccactcgccttggcctcccaaagtgctaggattacaggtgtgagccaccgcacccggtcTCTTTAAAAttttttgagacggagttttgctctttcgcccaggttggagtgaggtggcgcagtctcggctcatagcaacctccaccccctaggttcaagcgattcagcctcagcctccctagtagctgggattataggcaaccaccaccacaccctgttaattttttgtatttttagtagagacagggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtcttgaacgcctgacctcaggtgatccacccgcttcggcctaagtgctaggattacaggcgtgagccactgtgcccagccTCAGTTGCCTTTTTCGACCTCTCTGTCTCTCCTGGGTGTGAGCCATTGTCTGCTATTGGTGCATTTTGTAATCTTTTGCGACATCCTTGTCCTTGCCTGTTACTGTGTATAGAACAGGGTTTATTTCTGCCTCTCTGGAAGGGTGGGCTAGAGTCTGGATATGTTGGAGGGAATATTATGTGTAGTGACTTCAGTGTTGTCTCTCCCTTTAAGGAATGGGAGGTCCTCTGCCTTCCATGTAGTCACTGCTGTTTCCATTCTACCATGTCGGCATCCAGCCTCTACCCCTTTGTTGCAAGAAAGAATAAATCTGATAAGAGGTACAGGAGAATCCCGAGACCTGGGATGCGCAGGGCAGATATGCCCACCTACACCGCTGTCTGGGGACCTAAAAACAACTCAGACACATGTTTTTACAACttttttaatatatatttttataaaCAGGTCACGTGATAAAATAGCACAAGAAACACTTACCAAATATAAGGTTATATCTTCCGCATATACAGGAGAATGAGGTCGTTATGTACAATAAGAAAATGATTTTAGGGGTTGGTTGGTTTTGTTTTCCTCTCTCCCCTTAATTTTTCCTCCTACAGTCGTTGGAAATATCACAGCTTCAGTTGCATTAATACTTTGGGCAAATGGACAGCTGCCCCTCCCCACTAGGGGTTGTGGGGAGGAGGGGCTGGAGAAACTGGCTCCTGACCACTCAGCCCTGGAGCTTCCTGGGGCTGGCACTCCAGGGACAGGAAAATCTTTGGGCTGTTGATCTGTTTCTGATTCAACAGCAtctctctctctctttctctctctctctcactctctttctctctctcactctctggctctctGGAAACTGGTTACTCTCTTCCAACCAGATAGGGAGTGTCCCAAGATTGGGTGTGGGCGCGGTATCTCCTGGGGCTCAAGGTTGGGATGGGAAGGGGTCCCAGCCCCCTCCTCAGCAACAGCTGAGATTTGCCAGCATCCCCCAGGACTTCCAAATGTCTCGGGCCGACAGAGCACGGTCAGAGCCCATTTGGGCAGACAGAAGTTTGGGAAGCTGGGGAGGGGTGAAGTGGGGGTGGGGGGGCAGGCTAGAAAGGAGCCCTCCCTCCTCGGGGTGTCTAGGGTGTGCTGGCCACTGGAAGATTGGAGTCGCTGACCCAGTGCTGACCCTGACCCTTGGCTGGGTCCACTCTGCAGACTCCACCTGAGGAGACCCACCCAGGGTGAAGCTCGGTGCCCAGGCCTGAACTGAGCCCGGCCGGGTGCAAGGGCTGAGGTGTGAGGTCGGCCCAGGCCTCTTCCCAGGCCTGAGGGTGGCTACAGCTCGAGGCTTGCAAGGTGCCTGCGCCACCCCTGGGTTGAGGCCGACCGGAGTCAGCTGGGATCACGTTAATGACTCCAAGCGATCGCCAGCCCTTCCGCCCTCTCCCTGCCCAATTCTCTCAGCCTGGCCAGGGACCAAGGCCGGGTTTTGGGGCGGACAGGGGACTGCCCCACACAGCGGCAAGGAGGAGGAGAGGCCGCGTGGGTCAGGCTGGATGGGTGAGGAGGTGCGGGTGGGGCCTGGGCTCTCGGCGGCGGGCCATGGCTTTGGCGGTGGCCTGTTTCCCCTGACACCCCTCGGAGGGCTCCAGGTATGGTGCGGTGGAAGATGCAGGAAGCCCGTGGGGCTCTTCTGGGCCCGTGTCCTGGGGGACCCAGCCCCCTCAATCCCACTGGGCCCTGCCCGGGATGGGGGGGACAGTGGGAAGACAGAGCGGGTGTGGCGGGGAAGGCGGTAAGGGCACAGTCTGGAGAGCTCAAAGCCCCCCCAAGGACCGAGCCCCGCCCCCCAAGCGGGAGGGCGAGCGAGTGATGGCGGCGGCTGTGGCTGTGGCGTGGCGGAGGGCGGCGTGCAGTGCGGGCACGAGGGGCATGCACAAAGTCCCCGAGTGTGCGTGCGTGCGTggggcgggcccacccgccgcccccctgcccggggcggggcTGGGAGGGCGGAGGGACCGAAGGTCGGGGAGGGGCTTTCCCTCGGCTcgccccgcctcccgcgctgggccgggggcgcgggggcTCCCCCGAGCGCAAGGCGGGAAGAGGGGGCTcggcggcgccccgcgcccccgcccAGGTCATGGCCGGGTTCCCGCGACCGGGGCGGGGGCCTCGCGCTACTCAATGACGAGGCAGCGGGGCAGGTGCTGCGAGAAATACTTGAAGAGCTCGGGGGTGGCCCCGGGGCAGTTGGTCAGCTCCAGCTCCTCCAGCTCCTGCAGCTGCACCAGGCCCGACAGCCCGGTGGTGGTGAGCAGCGGGCAGCCTGCGGCGGGGTCAGAGGGCGGCTCAGTgcgcgcggcccagggctcgggcggggacggccgggccgcgccTCCCTCCTCCTCCGCCTCGGACCCGGGACTGTGTGTCCGCGCCGGGTGTGAGTTTGCACAAGGACCGGGCAGGTTGGGCGGGTGGACTAAGTGGGGGTGGGTGGTCACTGCCAGCGTCAGAGCAGAAACGGGGGTCTCACCTGCCAGAGACAGGAGGCGCAAACTCCCCAGGGCCAGGAGGTGCTTCAGCCCGAAGTCTTGCACCTGTCGGGAGTGGAGGAGCGACTTAACGATTTCCGCTCGCACCGAGGCGGAGGGCACCCTGGGGTCCATGGAGGGCTAGGCGGGTTCAAGCCCGGGGTTCCTCCGTCCCCCCCGGAGCCGGGAGGCGGCTGGGAAGTGCTCGTGGGGGCCGCCGGGACCCCTGCGTTCCGCTTAGGTCGGCTGCTGGATAGGGAGGGGCCCCAGACTCTCCCAGGATCTGAGTGGGGCCGGGAGCTCTCCCCGCGCCCCCACCTCCCCGCCGATCCCCCAATCCCGGGGCGTGAGAGCCGGTACCTGGCAGCACCATCGCAGGTAGAGGCTGCGGAGGGACGACATGGTGGACAGATAGCTGAGGCCAGTGTCCGTGATGCGTACACACCTGTGGTTGCACCAGAGGGGACCCCCACCTTCAAATCACCTGGCCCCGGCCATCCCTCGTCTTCCTGGGAGTGCCCCTGGCGTGAATCCCTTCCTGCCCCACCCGGAGCAGCCGCTGGCCCCTCCTCGCTCCCACCCACCGGGAAGGACGGGGGTCCAGCCAACCCGTGCTGCGGTTCTGCGGTTCCCACTCCCCAGGCTCCGAGGGCTCTGCCCGCCGCGCCACAGCCCCAGCCCCGCCGGAAGCccccgcccccggccccgtgcagccccgccccgccccgccccgtgcagccccgcccggcccagccccgcccGGCGCGGCCCGGGGGCGCGCACCTGTCGAGCACGAGCTCCTCTAGGCGGTGCAGGTCGCAGGCCACGTACTCCAGCGCCATGTCGGTGATGCGTGGGCACCACGAGAGGTCAAGGCTGCGCAGCTTGCGCAGGTTCTCGGCCACGAGCTCCACGCCGTCGTCGGTGACCTTGGAGCAGCCCGAGAGGCTGAGCGCGGTGAGGTTGGGCAGGCTGTGCACCACGTTGACCACGCCGTGGTTGGTGATCTCCCAGCAGGAGAGCAGGCGCAGCGTGTGCGTGCTGTGGCCCTGGCGCGCCGTGAAGTAGGCCAGCGCCGTGTCCGTCACGTGGTAGGCCTGCAGGCTCAGCTCCGCCAGGTTGGGCAGCAGCTGCGAGATGGCCGCGATGGCGTCGTCGGCCACGTTGATGCAGTCACTCACGCTCAGCGAGGTGATGCGCGCGCTCAGGCTGGACCACAGCCCGGCCTCGGTGAAGTCGTTGCAGCCCGACAGCTCCAGACGCACCACGCCCTGCATCTGTTCAAGCATAACCTGCAGGCGGGCGGGCGCCGGGTCAGGATTGCAGGAGAAGGGGTGGAGCCCGCAGGGAGGAAGCAGTAGGGTGTAAACATGCAGGGAGCTGAACCCTGAAAACATTTGGCAGTGTGTGAGGAGGCGGGGCATCGGGACGAGAGCCCAGGGCCTGGCCAGGGCAGGTGCTGGGGGCGTTGGCACCAGCGTTACAATTAGACTCCAGACCCGGCTGCCAGGCGGCTCCTCTGACCTCTACTCCTGGGGGATCCTTTCCCAGCTGCCCCTCAGCTCCCCCTCGCATCCTCCCCACACTGCATTTGtatttatttatttatttatttattcattcattcattCAATCAttttgagacagagccttactctgttgcccaggtcccaggctggagtgcagtggcatgatctcagctcactgtaccccccgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagtgtcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggtgcccaccaccaggcctggctaatttctgcatttttaatagaaatagagtttcaccatgttgaccaggctggtcatgaacgcctaacctcaagtgagtggcctgcctcggcctcccatagtgccgggatgacaggcttgagccaccgggcctgggccctgcatttaatccactgccctgctgctgccatcttgaaaatcttgagtgtctttgaacaagggacccacattttcgctttgcgcgaggtcccctgtagtcagtcctTCTTTCCTCCCACCCCAAAGCCACCATCCGCTCCCACCTCCATAGGGTTGCTGCTGCCCGCCCCTGCCCCCCAGCCCTGTCCCCCCCGAGCCTGGTGCACACCTCGAGGCCTGCGTCCGTGATGGTGGAGCGCTTGAGGCTCATGGCTTTGACACCCTTCTTGGAGAGCGCATAGTTGTCAATGAACTCACAGATGTCCAGGTCGGAGACGCCAACCAGGCAGAAGCCCTCGAAGCCTCTGGCGGCAAAACCCTGCAGGTTCACGAACTCCTTCTCGCCACCAGGCAGCACGTTGTAGAGCTCCTTGGCATGCAGCACCGGCGTGAGGCCTGCCCAGAACTTGGGCTGGTACAGCACGCGCCGCCAGGCCTTGCACACCTGGGCCAGCACACACTTCTCGCAGGCCGAGAAATACCAGAAGAGCCCATTGAGGATCTTCTCGTCCGTGGCCAGCGGCGGCCGCTCCGCTGGGTGCCCAGGTGCCAAGGCTGAGGCTGGTCCACCTGCCGGGGTGCACGGGCCCCCAGCCAGGGCAGCCCGGGACAGTGGAGCAGCCAGGCTGGGTGGTGGGAGGGTGGGTGGGGGTGGTGGCTGGCAGGGGCGGTTCTTGGTGGCTGGCGTGCCCTTGGTGATGCTGGCCGCACCCAGGCCGTTGGGCTGGCCCGGCAGCTTCACCAGACCGTTTCGAGGCAAGCATGGAGGCTTGGGGTCGCCGTCGATGCCCGGGCTCGACATCTTCCTGGCACGCTCTGTGGATGAGGGCCGGGAGGGGGAGTGAGTCTGTTGCTGAGTCTGGAAGGCCGGGGTTGGGGGCGGGTGCAGTGGGGCTCCTTCCCTCCTTGGGCGTCCCTATGGTGCTCCCAGAACCACCAGACAGAGAGGATGGGAGTGCCTGCTTCTCCCTCCCAGACTGTGAGCAGCAACAGGAAGCCAACCATGGCCACTGGCAGCACTCACTGGGCACCTACGGTATGCACTGAGCCCAACCTTCATTGCCCATGGACACCCTCTTTTTCTTTTGTTTTTTTTCTTTTTGAAACAGAGTTCCggccgggcgcggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggtggatcatgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaacaccatctcttctaaaaatacaaaaaattagctgggcatggtggcaggcgcctgtagtaccagctacttgggaggctgcagcaggagaatgacgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagattgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcaactgagcaagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaCagtttcactcttgttgcctggagcgcagactggagtgcagagacaggatcttggctccccgcaacctctctgcctcgtaggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgtgtagctgggaattcgggcgcccaccaccacacccggctaattttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcaagtgatccacccgcctcagcctcccaaagtcctgggattatgggaatgagccaccgtgcctgaccGGAAACCTTTTTGTTTGCCCAGTGAGGCGAAGAAACGCCGACACTTTTTAGCACTTAGGTACCATGATGGCCATTTTACAGAGAAGAAAATGGAGGTGGACCTGGTGAGGCCAGGACTGCTCTCTTGACCTCTCTGCTGTGCCGTCCACTGTAGGTACCCACCAGGCCCACCCCTCTGGGCAGGCCAGGGGAACTGAAGGGAAGGGTCTGGGGTGGCCTCTGGCCCCTCCCCTGCAGGGTGACTGCACAGCGCTCAGGAGGGGCTCTGGTGCTGACTCTGCAGCCACCCTCCACATGCACAGGAGCTTCCCTGGCTCAGAATCTACCCAAGGggctgggtgcagtggctgatgcctgtaattctagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggtggattacaaggtcaggggtttgagaccacctggccaacatggtgaaaccccttctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccgggcttggtggcaggctcctgtaatcccagctacttgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaatccaggaggcggaggttgcagcgagccgagatcacaccactgtactccagcctggggaacagagtgagactttgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaagaaagaaagaaaaagaaaaaaagaaaagaaaaagaaaaaagaaTCCATGCaaagaaagggcgggcatcttcccagggtgtgctgtggtgccagcatggttagccctggacacaagctgtcgctttaatcttctgcccaatgagaacgatgctgtgatagctgtacccactgcacagatgaggaaactgaggccaaggctgggcaaactgcctgcccgaggtcatggccagataagtggtgaagccaaagttcgggcagagctggctgaGGAAGGCCATGCGGAGGTTATCTTCAGGCCAGCGACATCCACGCACAGGGTGGAGTGGGAGCAGTCCCGGGCACCCTCCTCAGGCCTCCAGTCTGTAAGTGGGTGGCAGGGGGCACTGGGCACAGCCACGGAAAGAAGCAGAGGTGGGACCCTCACTGTGCCACCATCTGCTCCACAGTTCGGATCTCCTGCCGCCCCCACCCCGACATCCGGGgaggaggtagagcccctggggtcacacgccctggacttgaaatgggccccaccctggctctgtggtcttggcaagccacttcccttctctgagcctcaatttcctcaccttgaagcctggggaggtgacggtacctgctcccttggggcattgcaaagtgaacgagctcagtgcgtggctcatagcaaggtctggGAGAGTGATGTCTGAGCCCCACGGCCACACTCCAGGGCAAAGCAAGATGCATCTTCCCCGGTCTTAGGTGACTCCAGGACTAAGCCTGGAGCCTCATGCAGGTCCTGCCTTCCTGCCCCAAAATCTCAGAGGAGGGGCCAAAGCCTCTCCCAGCCCACCCTGCCCCCTCCTGCCACAGCCTCACTGGAAGGTCTCTTGGAGCCACCAAGGGGGTGTCTGAGAGTCTCCCACGAAGATTCCAACGCTTGGGGTGGGCCCTGCAATATGCAGACTCTCAGGAAGAGGATGGCTCACATCTTTTTGGCTGAGTGTCCCTTCTGGGGCTACAGGGCCTGGCCTGCTCCACCACAGAGAGTGGCGGGGTCTCGGACGGCACTGCAACCCCAAGGCCCGCAGCCCATTCCCCATAATCTGGTCAGGGGGGAGgggaggcagggaggcagggaggcagTGGGAGGTCCTGCCCCGCTCTTCCCAGCAGCAGGTCCCCACACTGGCTTCCAAGCCCCAGACAGGGCCAGCCTTGCCACCGGTCCACATCTGGGGAGGGGGTGTAGACCGGAGCCGGGACCAGGGGTCTCGCCAGAACACGTGGCCCTCGTGGCTGAGAACCCAGCTTTGGGTTTAAAGTCCTTCCTGCCCTAATGGCAGGAGCCCCAGCTCCACCCTCTGTACCATCTCCCCCTCCCCAGAGTATCATTCGGGTCCTGGAAGGTGAGGCCGGGCCCTCCACAGAGGAGGCACCCACAGCCGGTGACCCCCATCATGTGCCCATGATCAGAAGGCGCGGCCTCCGGAGGCCGACATCACAACGTTTGCAAGGGCCGGCTGGGGTCGGCACATGATTCGACCTCACGGCCGCCCTTAGGGGTGGAGGGGTCGCTACCTCAGGTTTGGGGAAGGAACACGAGGCTCTGAGGAGCGAATTTGCCCCAGGTGTCCGGGGAGGCCTGGCGCGGGGCTGCCTCGGTTCCCTCCCAGAGCCGGGGAGAGGGGATATCGCAGGATGCCGGCGCCCGAGGCGGCAGCACCAGGCCCACGGGCGCCCCAGTCTAAATATCCTCCGTGCCCCTAGAGCGGGGACCCTCGCTCCCCAGACCCGGAAGCGCCGCCTTCCCCGCCAGGGACGCCTGGGCCTCCGCAGAccccgccggccggcgcgccacccgcgccAGCACCATGGACAGCGGCCGCCCCAGCCGCGCGCTCAGGGCCAGGCCCGGGCTGGCTTCCACCGCGGACGGCTGCGGGGTCGGGGCAGCCCCGCAATCCCAAATCCCGGCAGCCCCCGCTCAGCAGGGAGGGGCCCCGGGGGCGAAGAGTGGGGGAGAAGCCGGGAAGGATCCGGAGGAGGCGGCGGGGGCGGCGCCAGGGGAGGAATAATCCCGGCGCAGTGCCGATTTAGGTTGAAAACGCTCCCAGTCATGGGCCTGCACGTGGAGCGCCGGGGCTGGGGGAGGCATTCGCGGGGCTCCTTTCCCGCCCCGCTCGGGAGCTCACGTTTGCCGGCGCCCACAGTCCCGTCCCCACCTCCAGGCCTCAGGGTCGAGATGGAGAAACCAAGCCGCACTTTGAGAGCCCACAGGAGGGAGGGGACAGGCTGAGGAGCGGCCGTCTGGGTATGGGTCCGGGGCCTGGCTTCCCTCATCCACACCCGCAGCGCTGCCAGAAGGCGCTGCTCTGCCTGTGGTCAGCCCTCGACCCGTGTGCTTGGTGGGAGCTGCATCCCCGCACAGGCAGCCCCACTGCTCCCCAATCTCGCGTCCACGTTCCTGCCGGCCCCCGCTGCTCCTCACACTCCCGGCTTGACTGACTCAGCCCGAATATCCCCCACCCCGTAGCTCAAAAATGCAAACAGCCACACACTTTGGCCCAGGCATGGGCGCTGCGGGAGAAAGCTGAGCTCAACTGGAGACTGGGGTCTCTCTGCCCGTTCAGCGAGAAGTCCCTGGGGGCTCACACAAGGGCCCCTCTGCTTGGCCCTGGGCCCGGCCCCACCCACCCAGCCAGACGGTCACCAAGGAGCCGGTTCCCATGGCTCACAGAGCCCCCTTTCCTGCTTGGCGACTGTGAGAGCCCTCGTTCCACCCAGAGGGGCTCGGACGACCTGCGTGGGCTGCTAGGGACTGCCTCTCCCTTTAGGGACAAGCAGCCCGGGTGCTAATACGGGGAAGAGACTTGTTAAAAAGGTGGCCATGCCTGCACCATCCTCAGCCTCAGCCCCTGTGGTGCTGGCTCAGCTTGAAGTGGAATCCTGTCAAGGCTCCGGGGCTCACCCCAGGGGAAAGAGAGAGAGGTGGCCCCACCTCAGCTGTCTTGTCCTCAGCAGCCTGAGCCTGGCCTGGGAGCTGCTGGGGAGAGGTGGCCGTGGCCTCTGTGTCCTCCCCAGGGGACGCAGTGTGAAGCGTGTGGCCAGAGTGAGCCTAGGGAGCACGGTGGGGCCTGGGTGCTCCTGGGGGTCCCCACATGTACATGTACAGCATCCAGGCTGACCATTCCCAGACGGCCATGTGGGGGCCCCGCAGGAGCTGCCTCTTCTGCGAATCAAGTCACTGAGCCCGGAGACCTCAGCTCCGGCCCCTTCCCAGCCCTGATGCCACAGCCCAGCCATGCCATTCCTCCTCCCCTGCTCCTCTGCCTGGGCACACGCCGTTCCCCCTGCTTGCCTGGCAGGGTTTCCCTGCCTTAGCCCTGCAAGCTCTTCTCCTCCATCCCTCAGTTCCTGGTGCGAGGTCGCCCCTGCCTCCTGCTCCGGGACCCCCAGCTCTTGAGAAAGCGTCTCCAGGGTCTTGCAATCACATGGGTTATCATCACTGTCCACCTGGTGTCTCTCCTCCTGGCCTGAGGACTCTTGAGGACAGACAGCACCAACGTGCATGGCCTCTGCATGTTCGCGgaatgaatgaattagggaacgaatgaatgaatgCGGAATGTGGCTCCGCTAGCTCAGTCACGCAGAAAGGGGTGCAGCTGCCAAGGCCCCCGGAGGGCTGATGGAGGATTGGTCAAATTTAGGAAGAGGCCGGTCAGCGGGGAAGGCACAGCTCGGGAAATTAACCCGGATCGTGCCATGGCCAGTGTCCGCGGGGAGAGTGGCCTCTGGGGTTGGGACTAGGTTGGTACCTGAGTCACTGAGAGGGCTCCCAAGACCCCAGGGCTGGGGTGGGCCTTGCAATACACAGAGCCTTCGGATGAGGAGGGCCCATCTCCTTTTCAGCTGGCTCTCTCTTCAGGAGCTGCAGGGCTGAGGAAGTGGCTGCCCGTCCTCCACCATCTGGCCTGAGCCAAGAGAGGGAAGGGGGTCCTCCTGCCCCGCTCTCCCTGGCACCACACGCACCCCTCCTCTGACCGGCCAGAGTCCTTCCTTCACACACTGCCTAACTAGGAGTGGGGAAGCAGAGCTTGCAGACGGATTTTCCAGAAGTTACATAGAGCTAGGATTGGCTCCAAAAGCCCCGGGGCTGGCTGATTCCCTCTACCTGGGTCCTGCCAGGTGTACCTCACAGGGTCCTCGCTCTGCCCTGTTCTGCCTCATGGGGTCTCGATGCCTTCCTGCTGGGCCCTGGGCTAGTGGTCTCTCCAAGTACTGCCCTCATCCTGCAGGGTCCCTGCCACGGCGCTGCATTCCTTGCAGAGGCTGCACACCGCGTGCCCACCCCTGGGACATCCTTTTGGACACATGCCTGGGAAACCTCCTCACCCCTCAGCGCCCCCAGTTTGAAGGTCTCTTCCCCCATCTCTGGTGCCCCCATCTCTGTCAGCACCAGACTGGGGCACAGCCTAACCAACCACTCAGCCCTCATAGAACCTCAGGGACCATTGAGCCCTGCCTGCAGAGGGCCTTAGAGCTGGGCAGGGCCCTGGTGGCCAGAGAAATGCACATCGGGCTCCATCTGCAGTGGCAGCCCCAGAGCCTGGCTGACAGCTGGGGTGGCTGGGGATTGGGGACAGGGTGCAGACTGACACATTCCGTGGCAGCCCCGTGACGCAGGCACACCCGCGTCCCTGCCACTTGGCACGTGGCACAGCGGCAGAGCTCCTCTCCCGCCCCCAGTTTGAGATGCTTCTGGGGGTGCACCAGGGGCTCTGAGGAGGGGCACCATGGCGCAGCAGGCACGTGGCCTCAAGAGAAACCCGTGTTGCTGCCCCAGCAGACTGAGGGCCCATGGTCAAGCCCAGGGCAGCTCAGCCTTGAAAGCTGGACACCCTGGGGAGTGGGTGCTGGGATCCAGGCCTCATCTCAGCCCCTGCTCGGAAGAGCATGAGCACCCTCAGAGGCGAGGCCTGGGCCCCTAGTGCCTACTGCTCCAGGCAGCTGCCACTAACCATCACCCCTCTTTCCTGCCCAGTGAAGGAATGAGGCCTGAACCCACACATTGCAGCCAGTTTGGCCGTTGACTCCTCCTGCACCACTGGTGGGGAAGGCTCAGTCACCTGCTCACCCACAGAGCTCCCTTCACTGCCAATCCAGTCATGGGAGGCACAGCAGTGGGTGCCCACATGCAAGGAGATGGGGTCTTCGGGTGGCTGAACAGTGCCACCTGGGTGGGAGATCCCTAACTCTCAGCAACACAAGGCTTCCTGGGTCCATGTCCAGCTGGTTCAAGGGCCCCGTGCCTCCCACACAGGAAGCTGTTTGTGTCCTTCTCATCAGTGGGAGGTAGGACTCGTCCAGCCGCCCCGGAAGTGGGTGTGAGCTGGAGGCAGTGAGTCTGTCGATGGAGGGGCTGAACTCAAGGGTCTGGCCCCAGATGAGGGGCAGTTGGGGTGGCAGGGGGCAGGGAGTGGGGCAAGTGAGTCCTAGGGTTCCCCCACACAGCGATGTTTGCAGCTGGGCCTTGAATTTCCCTCCCCTCCAGGCGGCTCCAGGTCCAGCCCTGTGTCCACCTCTGGCCAGACCAGCCAGGTTCCACTAGGCCTCTGCCCTGGTCCGGGAGACAGAAAACCCTTCAGTCTCCTGGCCTGACCCAGGCCTATCTGCTCCAAGGCTGCTGTCCAGCACCCCACAGAGGGGGTGGGCTGGGAGACGGCCCTGTGTCCAGGGAGGCCTGAGCTGCCCCTGGCCATTGGGCCCTCGGATGCACGGGTGTGGGGGAAGGGCCTGAAGGAAGAGGCAGGTGAGGTGGCCTCCGCCATCTGCTCCTCCTGCGGAGGGCAGGCTGCCCGAACAGAGCCTGGAGCCTGGGAAGGGCCTGGAGTGGCCGCTGGGCCGTCAGTTCCTGAAGCTGCCACCGCAGCCCTCTCTCCTGAGGTGATGGGTGGGGAACGCTCTCCACCCACCTAATCCCCAGGAGGACACCGGACCCCTCCCGAGCAGGTCTGAAGGTGCCGTTTCCCTTCTGAGGCCCTCCAACCTTGGCCAAGGCCCGGTCCCGCCTCCAGAACCAGGAAGGTGCCAGCCTCCCCCCACCCTCCTCCTCCCGCGGGCAGTAGCTCAGCGCAGGCCCCGGGTCCAGAAGCCGCCCGCCCGGGGAGGGCCGCCCCTCAGGCCGCACATCCACGCGACCCCCATGCAGTTTAACGGTCTCTGGCCTGTCACTTCGGTCCGGGGGCGCCCTCTGAGCCGACCAGGCGCCCGGGGTGGAGGCCGGGGGCCTACAATTCCTCCTTTCGGCGTCCCAGGAGGCACGGACCCCCAGCCCCGGCCGAGTGGCCAGTGGGGAGCGGCCCTCTTCCGGGCCAGGGGCCGGGGCGCGGGGCTGCGGGAAGGCCAGGCAGGGACCGAGGCCCAGCGGCCGCGGGGGAGGTGGGGAAGGGGCTGCCGTTACGTAAGCCCTTcccgggcggcggcggcgcggcccccacccccaccccgcccccTCCTCATTGTGGCCGCCGCGGAGGTGCGGCCTGGCCCCCTCCCGGCCCCGCAGCCCGGCCGCACGCGCACCTTACCTCGGCCCGGGCTCCTGGCTCATGCCACGCTGTCCGCCGGGCGACCTCCCGTCATGGGGAGCCCGGCATGGGCGTcggcgcgcgggggccgccggggtgctggactggccggcagggcccggccgcgccctgcgccccgcgTCCCGTCCTGGCCGGGCCCCCTCGGCAGCGCACGGAAAGGAGCTCCCCGGTGGGAGAGGATCGGCCGCCCCAAGCCTCCCACCGGGGAGGCTGAGGCTGTGCCCAGATAAATAAGGCCGCTTTGCAGGGAACCAGGCGGGCGCCTCCTCCTCCCCTCGCCCTCCCCGCGCTCCTCCGTggccgccgccggcgccgcgcgcgccccccgcccggcACCAAACGCCGCGCCCTCGCGCGCTCCCGGCGTGGCGAGCCAATCCGGGTTCGCGAGCCCGGGCGGGGGCGCCGAGAATGCCGAGccccgcccccgccccgccccggcccccgcGCGCGGCGCGCTCCCGGCACGGCGTCCACGAGCACGCGCCAggcccggcacgcgcccccgccccgctcgccgcgggcACCCGCACAATAACAAAccccggcgcgcggcgggcggggagggcgcgggAGGCAGAAGGGAGGGCGAGGGGAGGCGGGAGAGCAGGCGCCGGCGGGTGGCCCAGGGGTCCGGGGTCCTATGGGGACCGGGGCGGCACCGCGCGTCCCGGCCCTTGGCCACCACTTGGGGAGGCGAGGAAGGCGAGACCCGGCCCAGAGGAGACAGGGTGGTCAGACCCCCGTCTCTGGACCCTCCCGCCCAGCCCACGGCAAGGACCCTTCACAGCCCTCACACCCCCCGCGCACCTGCTGCGTGCCCGGCCGGAAGCCCCTCATTGGAGACCCTGGCACACCCGCAGAGCGCGAAAACAAGTGACTGCACGGATCAGTTCAGACAGTGACAGTGAAAGCACCCGAGGGCTTGCGGTGGTGACTTCTGGCGGGGGCTTCCTGAGGGTGCCCCACTGGAGCTGAGACCCCCCCACGGCGCGAGGGAGGGATGGCTCGGGAATGGGGGTGCAAAGATCCGAGGAGCCTGGCAAGTTCCCTCGGGAATAAACTGGAGGCTGGAGGCGGCGGCGGCTGCTGCAGCCCGGGGCAGGGGTGGGGCGTGCTAGGTTAGGTGGAGGACTCGGTGGGGACCGCTGGAGACCCCAGACGCCCCAGCAGGCTCAGGGCAGGAGAATGGAGGCCAATGGCGCCCTATCCTGGGGTCTCCTGGGAGCAGGGCCGGGGGAGGGAGCAGGTGTGGGGAGAGCAGAGGGGTTCTTTGCACCGGGAAAGAGCTACAGGGCTGAATGGGGCTCCTGAGAGTATCTCAATAGGAGTGAAACCAGCTGCTGTTCCCAGCGTCCTGATGGGAAGCCTGGCCGAAGGGGCCGGTGTGAGGCCTGGGGTCAGCGGGAAGGAGGGTCAGACTGACGGCACCCTGGCTGGGTCCCGGGGTGGGGTGGTTCTGTGCTTGCTGTGGGGGCGCCACTGGGTCTACCTGGGGTGAGCGCAGCAGCTCTTCTGCGTAAGTCTTGCCCGGTACCTGGATACTGACCAAAGAAGGTGCCCGGAGTGGGGCAGACAGGACGAGCCCCGTGAAGACAGTTGGGGCAACAGGGGAGCGGCGGTCCAACCTATCTGGGTGTCTCCGGTGCATGGTCTGGCAGGCTGGCCCTCTGGCAGCAGCTTCCACCCCAGGCGTGGACTGCTCCCGGTAGGAGGGTTTCACCTCGTGCCTGGGGCTCTCACCACAGCAGGTGCCAGGGCCTCAGGCAGAGAACAAGCTGTGCTTGTGTTGAGTCCCAGCTGGGGCTGGAGCCGGACACACCCCAAGCGCACAGGGCAGGCTGGACACACCCCAAGTGCATAGGGTGGGCTGGACACACCCCAAGTGCATAGGGTGAGCGTGGGAGTCAGGCATTTGGGTCATGCAACCCTGGCGAGGCCCAAGAAGCTAGCCCTGCCTGTGGGGAATCTGAGCAGGGAAGAGTGTGTGGAAGATCATCACAGAAAGGCCAACCGTGCTCCTCCAAAGCGGTGACCCACCTGCCCTCCACCTCTGTGACCAGCTGTGACCCACCTACCCCCCACCTCTGTCACCAGCTGTGACCCACCTACCCTCCACCTCTGTCACCAGCTGTGACCCACCTACCCTCCACCTCTGTCACCAGCTGTGACCCACCTACCCTCCACCTCTGTCACCAGCTGTGACCCACCTACCCTCCACCTCTGTCACCAGCTGTGACCCACCTACCCTCCACCTCTGTCACCAGCTGTGACCCACCTACCCTCCACCTCTGTGACCCCACCTGTGCCGGGCAACTTTGTCTGTCTCCACCATGGCTGGTGGCAGCTACTTCCCCATTGGTCTCTCCACCCCTCTCCCATCTCCTTTTCTCCCCAGGGTGCAGCGGGGCCATTTTGCCGTGCAGACATGGTCCTGTTCTTCCCAGGGCCCTGTTCATTCTTTGCTGAAGACTGCACAGCCCTGAGTGCCTGGCACGGCTGGCCCACAGCCTCGCTCTATACCTGGCCCCTTGAGGATGAAGCTTCAGCCACACTGGCCTTCTTCTGGGGCCAGGAGAGTGCCCCATCCCTAACCTGGTGTGCCCCTCCCTTCACCTGGAGCACCCTTCACCTGGGGCACCCCTCACCTGGAGCACCCCTCCCTTCACCTGGAGCTCCCCTGCAGCACCCCTCCCCTGGAGCACCCCTTCCTGGAGCATTTCCTCATGTGGAGCACCCCTCCCTTAGAGCACCTCTCGCCTGGAGCACTCCTCTCCTGGccccttgcctggagcactcccttgccacctgtacctgggtgactacttgcctttcagaccttggctaatgtattctcccctaggtgccctccctcaggaggacagggccacagacccgtgtcctcacctccccagcaccaaggaccttcttttctcagcctgtgtctgcctggtgtctgatggtgcatttgatgagctattggctgactgtgcctgctgagggccagggtgcggtcttcttccccaccaccctgtccctgggcactgagcctccatctcagtacgtcacaggtgcatggcaaatttggcgaatgagggaGACAGCGATGCGTCAGCAGCATGAAAGGTGACTGGCACCAGCAGTTTGGATCGCCTCCTGTGGCGGGAGGCCCTTGTAGAGGATACCTTTGGAGAACAGCTCACACCCCAGAGGGAAGTGGCTTGGACAAAGGGGGCTGCTCAGCAGACTTCGATCTCCTCTGGGGGATGTGGATACCGCTCAGGCCCGCACCCCTCCATTGGTCCTGGAGACTGATATGGGAGGCGGTATGTGCCTTGGCTCCGGAGGGCACCTGGAGCACCCCTCACCTGGAGAACCCTCATCCAGAGCACTCCTTTCCTGGAGCACCCCTCACCTGAAGCACCCTCAGTTGGAGCATCCTCTCACCTAGAGAACCCTCACCTGGAGCACCCTGTTACCCGGGGCACCCTCACCTGGAAAACCCTCATCTGGAGCACCTTCTCACCTGGAGAACCGTCACCTGGAGCACCCTGTTACCTGGAGCACCCTGTTACCCGGAGCACCCTCATCTGGAGCACCCCCTCACCTGGAGCACCCCTCACCTGGAGCACCCCTCACCTGGAGAGCCCCTCTCCTGCAGAACCCCTACCAGGAGCATACTTCACCGGGACCACCCCTTGCCTTGATGCCTCAGCACTGAGGAGTCTCCCATCTAGGTGGCTGGGAGGGCACTCTGGAGCCATGGGGATGAGGACCAGAGGCTGCTGGTACATCTTGCCCTGAGACTTTGGAGGACTGCAAGGGGACCCACATTCACTTCAGCTCTGCACCTGTGGTGATATCCCCACACTGGAGAGCAAAGTGATTGCTCCGGGGGCCAGATGGCCACGCCACCATCCCCCCACACACTGCCCCTGCCCCCTGCCTGGAGCACAGCCCGAGAGCACCCAGGATCATCCATGTGAAGCAGCAGGCTGTGGGTATGTTTGGCCGTCCCGACCCCTCCACAGCCAGAATGGGCACCCATAGGCATGAGAACCTCACAGCCATTAGGGGTGCCCTGAGTGCCATGGGCGGTGGGATTTCTCTGATGCCCCCCAGCTCTGCTCCCTGCCTGGCTCGCCCCCTATCAAGGCTAAGGATGACTCAGGGCCCAGCCATCACCATAGCAACACGCGTCGCCTAGCAATGGCGGTCTCCCGGCAACGGTTGTCTCCTAGCAATGGGATATTTTCCTGGGCCCTGGCTGGAGCCCGGCAGTTATTTTTAGCTCCACAGCAAATCAGTCGGCAGCTGCATTTTCGGCTCCTTGAAGAGAGGCAAGGTGTGGGGGGGTGGGTCTCTCGGCAAAGGGAGGAAAGCATCCCCAAGATAGGAATCTTGCTGCCGTGGGCCCGGAGGTGCAGGCCTGTGGGTGGGCGAGGCCGGATCCTGCCTGTGCAGGGGGGCAGGTGGCCGGTGGAGGGGAGCCAGGGGTTGTGCAGGCTGCCTGGATGAGTCGGCAGCTAGGACTATGTCCTTGATGGGCCCCCAAGCACCCTGAGCCTCATAGGTCGGCTGGGTAGAGGGGACGCAGGCCAGTGCTCACAGCTGCACTATCAGAGCATGTTTCTGGGTGGCCCAGGGTCTGGCAGGCTCTTGGCACCCAGTGCCCCTCAGCTGTGGGAGCCATCTTCACTGTCCCAGACCCCAGCTCCACCCAGGGAGGGGGCAGCAGGGCGGCCGCAGAGCAGCACATTTGGCCAATCCCGTGCAGGGCTCAGCTGGGGACACAGGAGGCGCTGGCTTCAGGTCAGCCCACACCTCTCTCCTCGCTCCGCTGCCAGTGAACAGAGACACAGGCGGGGGTCTTGGCCTACGATCTGGCCCTTCTCTCTAGGCTTCCTCCCCATTTCCTGGGGGATCCTGTTCACCGGTGCGTCCAAACTCCCCAACTCCCTCAGGGCAGATGGGCTGGGTGGGGCCGGCCTTACCCGCCTCCCCTTTGCAGCAGGTCAAAGGCTCTGAGGCAGATGGAGCTTCAAGCAAACAAGGAGCCCCCAGGGCTCACCCTCTGTGGTTCCTGGTTTACTCGAAGTTCTGTCTGCCTCAGGGCCTTTGCCCCTCTTCTCCCCAGGGTTGGGGCTCCCTTCCTGCCCCCCCATCAACTCCCCTCGTCCTTGATGTTGCTCCCCCAGGGCCCCAGCCAGCCAGCTCCTGCCCTGGCCGTGACAGCTGCTATTCTGTGCCCGGCACTGTGGTGTCCCCAGCGGGTTGTTCGGCACTCCGTGGCGCAGCCACCTGTCCGCAGCCGCTCCCCTGCGGGACGTGGGCTGCCTGTGCCACGCACTGCTGGGGCCCAGCTCATGGCAAATGCAGCACTGGTGTCCTCCACGGGCCGGAACCTGTGTCTGGGGGGAGAACGCAGTGGCCGAAGGTGGGAACCATGTGGCAGTGACCAGGGTCTCGACCGCCCCCACCCCAGCACCCCCTCAGGCTGCAGCTCCAAGGGCCCTCTGGGCAAGACAGGAACAGAAACCAAGTCTCAGGCTTCGGGACAAGCTGTGAGGCTGGCCGCCCTGCCTTGGGCTGAGGGGCCTTGTGATATGGCGTCTGTGTTTGGCCACGGCCAGGCTGACCCGCAGGCGGGAGAGATGATTGTCCCAGACTCTGCACTCTCCAGGGGTGGCCTCACGCGCTAGGCCCAAGGTTTCTGAAACAAAGCCTCAGGGAAGTTCTTCCTTTTGTCTGACTTGAGTATGTCTTGCTGCTGTCGCGTTCTGACTTGGGTGGAAATGGAGAGAGGCCCCTTCTGGGGTTTCAGGGCACTCAAGGGTCTGGGGCTTGGGGCACTTGAGGGGGCCCCCAAACAGCACAGACAGCCACGGCATCACCTAAGCTTGGGGATGCCTTCCAGGCACTCCTCCGCCCAGCCACCCCCCACTTAGTCTGCTGGTATTTACTGAGCACCAGCACCCTGGCAAGTCGGGTCCTGTACCCATAGCAACTGAGGACAGACTCGGCCTTCCAGGCCCCTCCTGTAGGCAGCACAGCACTCACTGATGCCAGGTGCTTTCCTGGGTGGGGCCGGGGGCTGTGAGGAAAAGGGGTGTGTGTCCAGGGCTTCTCCTGTGGGTGGCTGCATTGGCACCGGATCCCCGGAGATGAGGCTGGGGAGGAGGCAGGGACGCCCGGGGTTGAGGCGTCAACTCGGGGCCAGGCATGTGCCATTCCAGACCAGGTCACCCCAGGAACCCCTCCCTCCAACCACAGACACTGGCCCCTCTCTGGAGGAGGCCTGGGGAGAAGTCCGGGGCCCAGGCTGTCAGGAGGGTGTCTGGGGCTGACCCTCACGCCGCCACCAGAGGGCGCCTGGAGCCCACCGTGCTGACCCGGGGACCGCCAAGCGGCAGCAGCCCTGGACGGCTGGGTGGCTGCAGCGGCCGACCCGTGTGCCTCTCCCCACCTCTGCGAGCACCTCATGTGCTCAGCCCCAGGCCGAGTCTACCCTTTAACCTTTACGATTTTTATAttttatttatttattttttaatttttattgagacagggtctcttctgtcgccctggttggagtgcagtggtgcaatcacagctcactgcagcctcaccctcctgggcttaagcaatcctcctgccacagcctcccaaagtgctaagactacatgcatgagctgctgcacccagctaatttttgtagttttagtggagttggggtttcaacatgttggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgatgtcaagcgatcatcctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgagattacaggcaggagctgccacacccggccTTAATTTTTATGTAATTAATTAATTAAtttttatgagacagactctcactctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggcctgatctcagctcactgcaacctccacctcccgggttcaagcggttctcctgtctcagcctcccaagtagctaggactgcaggcgtgcgccaccacgtccagctaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcccgaccttgtgatctccctgccttggcctcccaaactgctgaaattacaggtgggagccgctgcgccTTGACAATTTTTAtttttaattgtaagatatacatcataacatctaccattttacccattttaaagtgtgcagttccgtactgttgagtacatttgtgttgtgtaatcaagctcctgaattctgtccccattaagctccaatccctcattcccctccccagcccctgctccactttctgtcctcatgaccgtgactactctaaggtgactcacagaagtggaatccaacagtgtttgtccttttgtctctggcttattttgctcagcgcataagcctccaggctcatccaggctgtagcgggtgtcaagggaccagaacttcattcctttttatggcttaataatggacccaccgccagggggtgccgtggctcatgcctgtaatcccaacactttgggaggctgaggtgggcggatcacctgaggtcgggagttcaagaccagcctgaccagcatggagaaacctcgtctctactaaaaatacaaaattagccggcatgatggcacatgcctgtaatcccagctgctcgggaggctgacgcaggagaatcgcttgaacccaggaggtggaggttgcagtgagccaagatcgcgccattgcactccagactgggcaaagagcgaaactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGAggccgggcgcggtggctcacatctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggcagatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaacaccctctctactaaaaaaagaaaaaatacaaaaatttagccgggtgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtctcagctgctcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagatcgagccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagaacgagattccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaatggacccactgcacttgcttgtccactcagctgcagacaggcctttgggagtcttccaccttttggggattgtgaTGGCTACTTCTGACCTGCACCTCGCCCAGAGCAAGGGGCTGGCCGAGCCCAGTAGGCGCCTTGTTCCTGTTTGGCCTGGGAGGGCCCTGGGGTTGAGGGAGGGCCTGGTCAGTGGGATCCAGCCTCCCACTGCCACTGAGCCATCTGGCCTCATCTGTCCGACTGCCACTGGTGAACTCATCTGTCCACCATGAGTTTCGAGCGCCGGGTGGCAGGAGGTTTGGGGGCAGGGGACGGAATGTTCACATCTTCAGGCTGCACAGTCTATGCTGGTCCTTGCAGTCCCCGGCTAAAGCTTCTGTCGTCCGTAAGGGGTTCAGTATGTAGTGGGACCCCTTTGCTTGTGCCTTAGGCCTTCTGTGATCTGACCTGTCGTCCCCACCCACCACCCATGCCCTGGGGTTTCACTGGGCTGCCAAGAGCTCCTTCCTCAGGCCCTTGACCCAGGCTGTCTGCTCTCCCCCATTCTCTTCCTGTCCACCTGGCCAGCCACTGCCCACTTCCTCCCATCAGGCCAACTCAGCAGTCCCGGATGCTGGGAATCCCACACTGCTCCAGCCTGAGGCTACAGTGTGTTTGCGAATCGCCTGTTTCTGCTTGTTTCATCTTGGTGGGGGCTGCTCCTGTGGCCCAGGGGTGTCCTCCCAGCTCCTGTGTCTCCACGTGCTGCAGGCCTGCAGGGGTGCCCGTGGCTGCTCCATTCACGCCCCTCCAGGAGCCCCGTCTGGCCCGGGGTCGGTCATCCGGCAACTATGGGGTGCCGCTAGGTCTGAGGAAAGGGGCCTAAGCCTGCGGGCTGCGCGCTCTTCAGCAGGACCCCCTCCTGCAGACGGCCTTACCAAAACCCGAGGCCTGGCCCCGCTCCAAGGCGCAGCCCCCAGGCCAGGCCTTCCCCGCCTCTGGAGTCATGACCCCTCTCCTCTGGGGCTCCACCGGCCTCTGGTCAGCAGGACCGGACCTGGTTGGGAGGGATGTGGCCAACAGGCCCAGGTCCCAGTGTTAGGAAGGAGCAGGCCCGGCCGCCCGCGAGGCGGAACCACCAGGTGGGCCACCTTCCCTACCGCCACCCCGAGGTTCCAGTGGACATCAAAACCTCGGCTCCATCAGAGGCTCCAGGACTCCGATCGGGACAGCGCGGGGGGCGAGGCCAGGGTGAGGGCGCGGCGAAGGAGAGACGCACAGCGCGGGGCGGGCAAGGAGCCTCCCTTCCGCGCCAAGGCCCCCCCCAACCCTCGAGGCGCTTGGACCGTGGGATAGTCCTccggcggcgcccgagctccggccccgcccccgctccgccccgcgccTGCTATTGGCGGAAAGTTCCGGGCCGCGCCGCGACTGGCCGACACGCCGCAGGCCCCGCCCCCTTCCCGACCCGCTCCAAggcggccccggcgctggggctgcgcggcaggcggagcggccgcgggcttgggggcttcgccggggccgggcggccggcgcccccggctgctcccgccgccgcccggacccgcgccccgccggggcAGCGGTGGTGAGAGCCCCGACTCCCCGGACGCCGCCCGCCGTGCCATGGGGTTCCCGGCCGCGGCGCTGCTCTGCGCGCTGTGCTGCGGCCTCCTGGCCCCGGCTGCCCGCGCCGGCTACTCCGAGGAGCGCTGCAGCTGGAGGGGCAGGTACGGTCCGGGGGGCTGTCCCCGCACTTAGGACGGGGTGCGCTGCGGCTAGGACCCCCCAGGCGCCCCTCGGAGCGCGCAGAGCGCTGGGCCGGTTTCCCCATCCGCGAGGCGGCCTCGGGAGGGAGCGGGGGCTGCGCCGGGCGGGGACCCGCCCCCGTCTCAGCGCCCCGTCCCGTCCTGTCCCCAGCGGCCTCACCCAGGAGCCCGGCAGCGTGGGGCAGCTGGCCCTGGCCTGTGCGGAGGGCGCGGTTGAGTGGCTGTACCCGGCTGGGGCGCTGCGCCTGACCCTGGGCGGCCCCGATCCCAGAGCGCGGCCCGGCATCGCCTGTCTGCGGCCGGTGCGGCCCTTCGCGGGCGCCCAGGTCTTCGCGGAGCGCGCAGGGGGCGCCCTGGAGCTGCTGCTGGCCGAGGGCCCGGGCCCGGCAGGGGGCCGCTGCGTGCGCTGGGGTCCCCGCGAGCGCCGGGCCCTCTTCCTGCAGGCCACGCCGCACCAGGACATCAGCCGCCGCGTGGCCGCCTTCCGCTTTGAGCTGCGCGAGGACGGGCGCCCCGAGCTGCCCCCGCAGGCCCACGGTCTCGGCGTAGACGGTGAGTGGCGGTCTGGTTGGGACAGGGTGGGAGTCCCGAAGTCTTACCCTGCCTGGGCTTGGCGGGAATGTGCCTTGTCGGCCCCACTGCAGAAGGAAAAAGTGAGCTACAAGGGTTGGATGGGCTTGTCAGGCCACACAGCCTGGGACTGCTGGGGAGGGATGGCCTCCCCGCCCTCCCTTCCCGATTCATCTCTGGAAAGAGCTGGCAGGGGCAGAGTGGAGGGAAGGGGAGGCCGGGCCCAGCAATCCTGGGCCTCTGGTCCCTGAACGGTTGGGGGAAGAGATGGTGGGGACAGAATCGAAGCCTCCGGCCAAAGCTGTCCGGGGCTCCCTGGCCCAGCGGTGACCTCTCTCCCCTCCCCCAGCCCAACCAACAAAAGTCCAGTGTGCAGCCCGGTCACCATGGAGACGCCGCTCGCCTCCCTGCAGGGCACCAGGCCCAGCTCTTGCTTGGCTCTCCTGGAGCTTGGCGCCTGACCCTGAAAGGGATGGGCTCTCGCTATTCTGCCCCCTGGCCCTGGGCCAGGGACCCCAGACCACCCTTCCTCTGCCCCCACTTCCTATCACCCTAGCTGGGCTGCTGCTCTTCAGACCTCAGATCCGGGAAACTAGAGGGGTCCCAGATGCTGGGGTGCATATGTCAGATGGGAGTGCAGGAGGGCGGCCCAGGACAGCTGATCGCTAGGCATGGCCCCCAGGCCCACGTCTGTGTGCATTCCTGCCTTGGAGGTACGCGCCTGCAAGTGTGTTTCCTGAGTACAGGTGTCGCCGAGGGCGTGCACATCTGCTGTGTAGCTCTCTGGGACCCCCAGGTGCCATCAGGCCCTGAGCGTGGGCTCTGCTCATTTGCCTGCTGCCTCCTGCCGCTTGTGCGGACAAGGGACGGGGCCTGGGGTGATGCCGGGAGAGGGCAGGGCCTCTCCTCACCACCCCCTCTGCATGCCAGGTGCCTGCAGGCCCTGCAGCGACGCTGAGCTGCTCCTGGCCGCATGCACCAGCGACTTCGGTGAGTGTCCCCGCCATGGGGGGAGCCTGGAGCCTGCCTTCCCCTGAATGCCTACCGCAGCCACATGCCTCCCCACAGTAATTCACGGGATCATCCATGGGGTCACCCATGACGTGGAGCTGCAGGAGTCTGTCATCACTGTGGTGGCCGCCCGTGTCCTCCGCCAGACACCGCCGCTGTTCCAGGCGGGGCGATCCGGGGACCAGGGGCTGACCTCCATTCGTACCCCACTGCGCTGTGGCGTCCACCCGGGCCCAGGCACCTTCCTCTTCATGGGCTGGAGCCGCTTTGGGGAGGCCCGGCTGGGCTGTGCCCCACGATTCCAGGAGTTCCGCCGTGCCTACGAGGCTGCCCGTGCTGCCCACCTCCACCCCTGCGAGGTGGCGCTGCACTGAGGGGCTGGGTGCTGGGGAGGGGCTGGTAGGAGGGAGGGTGGGCCCACTGCTTTGGAGGTGATGGGACTATCAATAAGAACTCTGTTCACGCAAGCTGCTGTGGACCTGGTCTCCTGTGTCCAGCCCAGCCTTGGGCCTGCCTCGCAGCTGTGAGGATGGCTCCAATTCCTGCCTCCTGGCGggagactgaggctcaggggaatggtatcttgttcaagaccatttggcaactgagagggagagcAGATGTCAGGAGGAGCTACACCCACATTCCGGGGAGGGGCCGCTGCTGGGTGGGGGGCACGTGGGGACCTGCACTCATGCAAGCTTCTGCTCTGCTGCACCCACCAGCCCCGTCCTTGCCCGCACCCTTGCCTGCTTCCCTGGCTGGCTCCCACTTGCCTCCCGTGCCAGGTGCTTCTGGGGCTCAGCAGGAGAGGAAAGGGGCAGAGGGGCATAGGGTCCCTCGGGTACGGTGGGGGCAGGCGGGCGCACAGCGCTCCGGCTCTGAGCCAGGCCTGTGAGGGAAGGGGCTGCAGGCTGGCAGGGTGCCGACTTCCCCCATGGCTGCTGTGAGCCCGCAGAGTCATCCTTGGCCCCGTCCCGCCCTTGGGGAAGAATGGGCCCCTCTGTCCTCAGGCCCCTTCGACGTGCTGAGCATCCAGACGTGGCGAGGAGCCCGAAGGGTGTGGGGTCCCCTCTGCAGGGTCCTGCTTGTTGCCTGTTTCCGGCGGGCGGGGTGCACAATGGGGTCTCTAAGGACCGTTTCCCGCCACTGGCCCCATTGTCACTGTCTCCGCCTTCCTCCTCGGCCTTTCAGCCGCATAAAGGGCCAGTGAGGTTTGGGACAGCCACAGCCCAAGGCTCCGAGGCTAAAAGCCCCTGGGTGGGGGTGTTCCAGGACACCTGGCCCTGTGTGAGCTGCCTCCTCTCACCCCAACCCCTCGGATCCTGGGAAAGAGACAGCCATGGCTCAAGGGCCAGGGACCCCTGGGCTGAGCCCCAGAAATGGCTTTCCATTCTCGCCTGGGCCGGGGTGGGGGTGGAGGCCAGAGGCCCTGCCCAGGCAGATGAAGCCCCCAGCTTTCAAGGGGGAAACTGAGGCTGTGTGAGGGACACAGCTGTGCAGGGCCCACAAACACGGTCCTTTCTCTAGGTTAGCGGATGCAGATGCCTGATGAGTGCCATGCCCTCTGTGGACACCTGGGGAGGGGGGTCACCTCCAGCGCCGCCCTGGGACTTCCACTGCACGTGCAAGAGACTTACCCTTTCACACAGATCACCTGCCTGCCGCAGGGCTGATGAGGATGGGTGAGGAGCGCAGCCACTGGGTGTCATGCACTGTGGGGGTTCTCCCACCTTCTGCCCCTCCTCAGGTTCCTTGCTGCTTCTCTCCTCTCCCAACTGTGGCACGCTGAGGGCTCAGGCACAGGACCGCTCCTCTGGGGCAGCCTCCAATAACCCTTGgacaacctccactttttcatcttcagccctgaccactccctggggcccatagccttacatccatctgccCCCAGCCCAAACACTTCTGCAAACACTAGAAAAGGAGGTAGCCCGTGTGCCCTCCTGCACCGCCTCCTCCACTCCTGTCTTGGAGAGGCTTTCCCGTGGGCCGAGCAACCCCCTTACCTTTGGCACTTGCCCTGATTCTCTGGCCAGCTTCCTACAACCTCTCCTTTTCAGCCACACCCAAGTCCACCTGTTCACAAACACCCTGGGCTGGGCCCTGGCCGAACCCTGGCTTCTACCTACCTGTCTCAGGAAGTGCCTGAGCCTTGCACCTACAGACCCTCCCAGAGAAAGCCCTGGCTTTGCAACCAGCTGTCTTCTCATGAGACACAGGGCCACAGGAGCACCACGGTGCCCAAATGGGTCTTGGAGCATTAGACCAGGGGCTTCATGCCTGCCCTGGGGACAGGTGGCCAAAGTGGCATGGGAGATAGGGAGACAGTGTGGGTGAGCAGGTGGGCAGGAGCTACAGGAGCCTGGGGCCTGTGGATCACAGACACCGCCAGGCAAGTGCCAGTTCACACAGGTACAGGTGGCTGCAGAGTGCCCAAAGGCCAAGCAGCAGAGTGCCTGGTGTGGACGGGAGAGGAGTGGGGAggttgggcgcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccaacactttgggaggcccaggcaagcagatcatgaggtcaggagatggagaccatcctggccaacatggtgaaaccgtctctaataaaacacaaaaaattagccagacatggtggcatgcatctgtaatcccagctactcaaaaggctgaggcagaggaatcacttgaacctggaaggcagaggttgcagtgagccaagactgcgccactgcactccaacctgggcgaaagagcgagactcaagtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaGAAGAGTGGAGAGTGCACGCTAGAGTCCAATTAGGTGCATTCATCCAGTAAGCCTCCTAGGTAACTGCTCTAGGTGCAGGGAATAATGCAGGCAGCAGGACAGGAATGGGCGCTGTCAGCTCCCCCTAGAGCTCAGTGTACATACACCCTTCCTTTCCTGGGAGGGCCGTTCCAGGCCCCCAGGAGACAGGACACGCTGAGCTGGGTGGGGCTGGGGCCAACGTGGGCAGGCCTGTGAGACTCTGCACTTGGGAGCTGGGGGCTGTGGTCTGCGGCATACCCATGTCTGGAAGCAGCCTCTGTCCCTGCAGGGGCTCTAGACCCCAGCCACGGATGGCTAAGGAGGAGCTAGGCCAGGGCACGCATAGACAACCCCCGACATTCACGGGTGTTCAGCCCTACCCTGGGTGTGGAGGTCGTGGCCCAGCTGCCTGACCCAGAGCTCGGCTCTTCCACTTGCGCTTCCCACCCCCAGCTTCACAAGGTCACCTCCAGGAACTCAGTCTTTTTGTGTGTTGTTTTCTGGAGAAGGAAGGTGATCTCCCCACTCCCGGGGCTGTCTGCCTTCCCTGTAGCTGGCAGGTGCCAGAGGCCCCCGCCTGTGACATCCGGCTTTCCTCCCACCACACTCGCCTGAGAGCCAGCATCTGTCTTCTTGGGCCTGCTCAAGCTCTCCTCCGTGTCAGCCCCTCCTCCATGCCCTTCTCCCTCAGACCCCACCCCCCATCCCTTCACCGCCCACTGGGGCTCATCGCTCAGGCTGTAGGAGGGAAATGGAAGGATGTCCTCCCGGGCTCTGGCTGGCGCTGGGTGTCCGAGTCAGCGGAGCGCCCCCAGCAGTCTCCCCGAGGCAGAGTCATGGGGGTGCTGGCGCCTGGACGCTGTCTCATCCCGGGGAGCCGCTTTCCCACCGGCTCCCTGGGCTCCAGCCGCCCCACGCGAGCCCCCGGCTGGTTCTGGGGCCAGGACCGCCCCTCTCCAAGGCAGACTTCCCTTCATTCCACGACAAAGACGCGCAGCCCCGTTTCCCTGGGGCTCTAGCCCGTGAGATCGCCGGGTGTATCCCGACTCCCGCCGGCACGTGCGCTCCCCCAGGGCAGGGCCTGCCTGTCCCCTTCCGCGGGTCGCCAGCAGCCAGCACAGGCCGCAAACGGCGGTCCGCAGAGCGGACCAACGGAGCCGACCCTCGCAGGCTTGGAGCCGGACGCGGCGGGGCAGAGCCCCCGAGGCTGCAGCTCGCCGGAACCCGCGGGAGGGCAGCCGGGCTGGGCGGAGCGCACAGCGCCACGGACCGACCGCGCAGGCTCTGCCGGCCACTTCCGGTGTCGCGCGGCGGCTCCCGGCAGGAGGCAGAGGGCACACCGCCAGCCCCAGGCCAGGCTGCGAGGGCCGCGGACCCGAGCCGGGAAGGACCTTGGGCGGACGAGCCGCGCGTCCCGCAGCCATGGAGCAGGACGACCCGGTCGAGGCGCTGACGGAGCTGCGCGAGCGGCGGCTGGGCGCGCTGGAGCTGCTGCAGGCGGCGGCCGGCTCGGGCTTGGCAGCCTACGCGGTGTGGGCGCTGCTGCTCCAGCCCGGCTTCCGGCGCGTGCCGCTGCGGCTGCAGGTGCGGGGCGGGGCCAGGCCGGGCAGGGGAGCTCGGCTGCCGCTCAGGGTCTCAAGGTCTGGGCGTGGCCGGGGTGAGCTCCGCCCCGCCGTGTGGTAGTTCGGGCCGGGCTGCGGGCGGGGCGGGAGCGGCCAGTGGACTCTCGCCGCCACCCGGTCCAGGTGCCCTACGTCGGCGCGAGCGCGCGGCAGGTGGAGCACGTGTTGTCGCTGCTGCGAGGACGCCCCGGAAAAACGGTGGATCTGGGCTCTGGCGACGGCAGGATCGTAAGTGCCTGCGTCTGGGTCTTCGCCGCCCCACACCGCCCACCTGCTGGCGGGCGCCCCTGCCCACATCCTGGTTCCCACACTCTCGGTGCCCACAGGTGCTGGCGGCCCACAGGTGCGGCCTCCGCCCGGCCGTGGGCTACGAGCTGAACCCCTGGCTGGTGGCGCTGGCGCGGCTGCACGCCTGGAGGGCCGGCTGTGCCGGCAGCGTCTGCTATCGCCGCAAGGATCTCTGGAAGGTAACCTGGGGATCCCTGGCCACCCGCTGACAGCCCAAGGTGCGGCTGACACCTGCGAGGGCTGGGGGCCGGGACTCGGAAGCTGCGATGACCCGGTGCCCACCAGGCCTCTCCCCGGCCGGGGCGACTTCTCTTCCGGCAGGTGAGCCTGAGGGACTGCCGCAACGTGTCTGTGTTCCTGGCCCCTAGCGTGGTAGGTGCGGGGTTGCCAGCCCCGCTGGGAAGCCCCAGCCACACCCCAGGGTGTTTGCTGCTCTGAGGCCTGGGCCTGCCTGGTGGGTGCTAGGCTTGGGGCTAGGGGGGTGAGCGCGGCTGTTTTCTACCGGCCCCGCCCCCGCCCCCTCTACTCTGCTGTTCTCTCCCTCAGCTCCCGCTGCTGGAGGACAAGCTGCGGACAGAGCTGCCTGCTGGGGCCCGCGTGGTGTCTGGGCGCTTCCCACTCCCCACCTGGCAGCCTGTGACCGCGGTTGGCGAGGGCCTGGACCGAGTATGGGCTTATGATGTTCCTGAGGGTGGGCAGGCTGGGGAGGCCGCCTCCTCGCGGATACCCATCCAGGCTGCCCCCGGACCTAGTTCTGCCCCCATCCCGGGGGGCCTTATTTCTCAGGCCAGCTGAGTATTAGACACGATAAAGACTCTGTGGGTTCTATCCTGACTCATGTTTTATGGGGGGCTGGGTGGGAGGGTTCTGTGCTGGCTGAGGAGCTCTGCTCTGCTCTGCTCCTTGGGAGACGGCCTAGTGGCTGCCGGTCCTTGGATGCTGGGGCTTGGCTGGAGGCACAGCCCCCACTTTCCAGGGGTCCCCTGCACCTGCCAGCTTCCTCAGCCTCAGGATTTCGTGCTTGTACCTGCTCAGAGGAACCATGCTTAAGTGACTTGCCCAGCTGTGGACAGGTCTGCTTTTAGCGCCTGAGGCAGCCATCATCCTTCATTCCAACCAGACCAGGGCCCTGGGGTCACACCCAGCTCCCTCTGCCCACCTGCCCAGGTGCTGGTCCACGTACTCCTGTAGCTCAGAAAGTTGCTCTTCAGCCATCGTGGCCCGGACCAGCAGCTGTGCCCGCTCCCGTTCCAGCTCTGCCTGGCATGGGGATGTAAGCCATGAGCTGGGGCATGGCGTGAGGATGGGCCTGGGCCAGCCCTTGCCTCCTACCTGGGTGCTGCGGGAGAAGTCCCGGAGCTTCTGGTGGATCTGGGCCCAGGATGCAGCGTCCAGGCCCCTGTGAGGGGAGAGGAAAGGAGGAGTGGTTTTGAGAGCTGGCATGGTGACACAGGGACAGACGTGACCGTGCTGAGTCAGGTTCCCAGAGCCGGGAGGGGACACCTGGGAGTGAGTGAGGGAGGCATGGGCCCCCCCCGTGCTCCTGTGGCGCCCCCCCCAGGCCTTGGAGCCATCCGTGTATAGGGACAGCCCGGGCCCAGGGGGTCTGCTGGCTGCTGGGGGAGGGCTAAACCACAAGGCCAGCCCAGACAGTGACTCCAGCATCAACAGGGATGCCACCCCCACACGGGTGTGCCCTAAACCCCAGGAAATGGTCCTTGGGGAGCCCTGCCCATTGTACAGCTGGGAACATGGAGGCCCAGAGGCAAGGGCTGGCCCGGTCACCAGGCGCCCTGCTCCCACCCCTCGCGTCCTCCAGGTCTCAGCGGAAACCTCCCTCAGGTGTGCTCTCCCTGATCCTCCGTGTTCAAGGCCAGCTCCACCTGCAGCAGCCCCTCTTCTCTTTCCTGTGATTATCAGTGTCGCCGGGACCCACGGAGGGACCCCAGGGTGGGGATGTGCCACTGAGTGCATTGCTGTGACCAGACCCTGTCTGGCGGGGGCTTGGTGGAGCAACTGGGGGCCCCAGGGTGCAGGCGTTGTGCTCTCTGCTCATCCCCCACAGGCCTCCCCCACACCCATGAGGGCACTCACTGTGGCTCTGATGTTCCCCCCTGGGAGGCTCCACCGGGTCTCTTTTTTGGGGATGAGAGCAGTGCCCCAGGCCCGCCGTGCTACAGAGGTTTGTGGTGGGGACGTTTCAGTTGGCTGAACAAGGCAAGCCCCTCAGAGGCCCGGGGCTGAGGTCTCTGTTGAGCCCAGGATGAGGCCTGGGGCCAGTGTGGGGCAGTGGGTGGGTGGGGGGCACCCGGGCCTGGAGCTTCTGGGGGTCTCTAGCCTCACCTGGTCCTCCCGATGGCTGAAGTCAGTGACCAGGGGCACGGGCAATGGTTCCAGGTCCAAGCTGGCTATGTCAAAAATAGCTTGGGGGTTCCCAGGTGCCCTGTCAGGGTAGGCTAGTGTCTGTCTGGGGCCACTCCTGCTGCACACCAAGCCTTTGAGGCACAGAGGCTTAGAGACCCACAGATGCCTGACACCTCCCATCCCAGCGGGGCCCACCTGTAGGCAACCAGTAGCTCTTCATGCCTGCGGCTCAGATCCACCAGCCTCTTGTGGTAGCTGCGGGCAGCCCGGGCCAGCTGCTGCTCACGGCTGCGGTGCGCTGCCCGGATGTCCTCCAGAGTCGCCTCCAGGAATGTCCGGAGGGCCGTGGTGGCTGGCGCTTGGCCTGCACCATCTGCGTGCTCCTGGAGGCGGCGGGCTGGGTCCGCATGGGGCCCACCCCCCATCTTTTCCAACCATCCCCCCACCCCAGCAGGCTGAGCAGTGCCGGGGCCCTGGGGTCTCCCTGAAGCTATCCAGCACACCCAGGCCAGGCTTGGGCTCCCTAGGCCTCAGGGTGCTCCTGCAGGGCTCACCACTGCCTGCCAGGCGCAGTGTTGCAGCCGTAGGACGTACTCATCCTTCAGTTTCTTGAGCTGCAGCTGCAGCCGGGCATTTTCAGCCTCTGCCTGACGGAGCTGGCCTTGGCAGCTGCACAGCACCTGGGGTGGAAGCAGCCCTCCACCTGTGCCCTGAGAGTGGACCCCGGCTGAGCTTCTGGGGCCCCCACCCTCCAGGTCTCCAAGCAGTCAGGGCAGAGCCTCACCACAGCCTGTGTGGCCAGTCGCTGCCCGGCTGCCCTGGCCTCCTCTCGGGCTCCCTGCAGCTGCCGGCCCAGGGTTGCCCTGAAGACACGGGGGTGAGGCTCAGCAGGCCCACGATCAGGGGTTCTCTCTGCTCCAGGATGGGGCCCCAGGTGAGATGGCCACTCACACACGCGTCACCAGTGCCTGCTGCCGGGCCTCCTGATGCTCCAGCGCCCACTTCACTTCCCCCTGCAGCTGTGGGGCACACAGGGCTGGCTGGATGAGACCCTAGGCTTGGGGTCTCTGGTGCTGCCCTCTCCCCTGAGCTAGGTGGCTGCACACTCACGCCGCTCCCCAGCCTGTGCTGCTCATTCTCGGGGTTCATGGTGTTCTTGGGCTGCACCTGAATGGAAGGGAGGGCAGGGAAAGCTAAGGGGTGGGTGAGCCCCAGTTTCACTGAGGCCCCTGCTGAGGCTTCCCTCTGGCCTTTCCCAGCCAGGCTCTCCATATGCTCATGGTAACCTGGAATCTGTGGTCATCAGAGTGTCCAGGCACCTGGGCTTTGTGTCTGAGCTCTTGGGCTGCTGCCCGGGGATGCCTGGGGTCAGACTCCACTGGGACTGCACAGCCCTGGCTGGTGCCATCTCCTCGCAGCTCCAGCTCCAGTACCCGGCTCTCCAGCCGAAGGATCTGTGGGACAACTGGCATGAGCAGGTGCACCTGCCCGCGGGCCACCTGGGGTAGGTGAACATTCACCCGGTGCACGCTCAGGGGCGCGCAGCACTCAGAGGCAGGCTGAGACCCACAGATGCCATGTGCGTGTGCATGCCCATGCAGGGCACGTGTCCTGGGCCTGCACCCCCCGTCCCCCATGCACTGAGGCTGGTTCACACGGCTGCTCACCTCACTCTTCAGCTGGAAGATTTCAGCCTCATGCTGCTCATGTAGGTGGTGGGTTGTGATCTGAATGTCGACCAGCTCCTTGGAGATCTGTGGGTGGCCAGGTGAGAGGTGGCGTCTGTGGGCCCTGCTGGCACCCTCCCTCCTCACGAGCACGCTGGGGCCCCACACCCACCTGCAGCTGCTGCTCCTTATTGAGCGCTAGATCTGGTGGGACCTCTGCTTCCAAGCTGGTGGCCCACACTGCGGTGCCCCCAGGAGCTCCTGGCAGCCAGTCCTTGGCTCGTAGCACAACCTGGGGAGGTACCGCCACCCATTCCCCAGGTGGGTCCCAGGCTGGGCTGTGGCCCCACTCCCATGCAGTCACCAGTCCCGCCTCCCTGCCTGGCTGAGCTGTAAAAGTCCCTCTCCTGGCTGAAATTAGGCCCAGGGTGCAGGAACCTGCACCCTCCTGGCCTTTGGGGGAACGGGCAGACTTCAACCCCATGGCAGGAGCGGCAAGTCCCAGAGGACTCACATTCTCCACCCGCCGAGAGGGAGGTCCAGGCCTGGGGCCTGTGGTGGCTGCGTGCTCCATAGGCTAGGGAACCCTGGCCAGCTCCGAGCCCGGTGCTGCCTCCACGCCCGGCTTCCCCATGGCTGCTGCTGCCACTGGCACTGCTAAGTGCGTTGCCAAGGCCTCTGTTGGTCCCAGGTGACTCCCAGGGCACCGCCCACAGGGGCCGGCCAGACCGGTGGTTGCTGAGGAGGGAGGATAGCTCTTCCTCTCTCCATGCCTCCGTTTCCCCATCTGGGGAATGCGGCCCAGCGCCCCCTGCACATACCCTGTGCAGATGGAACCAGGTGCGTGAAAGCGCCCAGCCTGGGCGCAGCGGACGAGCACGCGGAACGGAGCGGCAGCCCGCCCGCAGGATGCCCTGAGCTACACTCGCTGGACACCTTCTGTGTACCTAGCAGTGCTGGCTGAGCCCCGGGACGGGGGAAGTATATCTCTGCACCTCTGGCCTGAGAAGAGGGGCGCAGACGTCCCCATCAGGGGCCGGAGAACTCGGAAACGACTGGCTCAGCCGGGGCGTCGGGAGGGCTTCCTGGAGGAGGTGCCAGCGCCGGGCGCGGCGGGGTCGGAGCGTGCGCGTGGCGCCCCACCGGGCACGCGCACCGCCGGCGGGCCTTGTGGTCTCATCGCGCGCAGGATCCGGGCCgggcgggggcgggggcggggCGCGTCCGCGGAGGGGGGCGGTTGGCGGCTCCCGAGCCCAGCGCCGCGCTCAGTCCGGACCCCGTGACCGGCGGCCGAGGCCCCGCCTCCGTCAGTCTGTCCTTCGGGTCCTCAGCACAGCCGTGCCGGTGAGGCGGGCGGCGGGGGAACGCGGCTGTCCCGGGTCAGGGGTCTTgcggcggcagggcggggggccgaggggcggggcctgggaggaaggcgtggcctttggggactggggctcggactgggggcggagccggggctggTTGGGGACCGGCCGGGTTCCGCTCCTGCTGGAGCCCGGTGCGTGGAATTCCACGCGAGTGCCGGGGAGTTCCTGGGGAGCCGGGCTTCTCTTTTGGCCCCCAGCGTGTTGACCGAGCCCGCTTCGCACAGCCCTTCCTAGGGTGTGGAGAGCGGGCCCCGCCCTGAAGGGGCACCGTGGGCTGGGGGGCCTGTTTTGGAGCAGGCACCGGTGGCCGAGCTCCGTGACCATGAAGGTCAAGGTCATCCCCGTGCTCGAGGACAACTACATGTACCTGGTCATCGAGGAGCTCACGCGCGAGGCGGTGGCCGTGGACGTGGCTGTGCCCAAGAGGGTGAGGGCAGGCCGCGGGCCGCAGGGACCCGGCCGTGTCCCCCGAGAGCCTCCCCGACCCCCCTGGTAGGAGCGAGCCCCCACGTGCTCTGCTCTCCGGAAGTCATTGGCGGCTGGGGTTCCTTGTTTATCTTGGGGCTCCCTGAAGTTACGGCACCTCTGGCCTCCGCCCTTTCGCTGCTGCCTGGCGGTCCCTGCACGCGCTGGGCGCAGTCACCGCCCGCTGGGTCCCCGCTCCCCGGCGCTCCCCGGGGCTCTGGCCGGCCTGGGGCAGTGAGCGCGGCGGATCCCGATATGGAGGGAGTGGGCCACCGGGACCGTCTGTGTTACCGTCACTCCCGTCCCTTTCAGCTGCTGGAGATCGTGGGCCGGGAGGGGGTGTCTCTGACCGCTGTGCTGACCACCCACCATCACTGGTGAGCGCCGGCGGGGCGCGGGGAGGCACGAGGACGCCGCCTTGTCCCAACCCGACCTAAcccggcccccgcccgcccgcccgcAGGGACCACGCGCGGGGAAACCCGGAGCTGGCGCGGCTTCGTCCCGGGCTGGCGGTGCTGGGCGCGGACGAGCGCATCTTCTCGCTGACGCGCAGGCTGGCGCACGGCGAGGAGCTGCGGGTGAGCGCGCGCTCCCGGGAGGGGCGGGGAGGGCGCCCCGGGTCCACCCGCCCTCACAGGTCCGCCTGCTCCTCCGCCGCAGTTCGGGGCCATCCACGTGCGTTGCCTCCTGACGCCCGGCCACACCGCCGGCCACATGAGCTACTTCCTGTGGGAGGACGATTGCCCGGACCCACCCGCCCTGTTCTCGGGTACCCGCAGCGCGGAGCGCGcccaccccgcctcccgccggccccgccccatctgctctgacccgccctcccccgccAGGCGACGCGCTGTCGGTGGCCGGCTGCGGCTCGTGCCTGGAGGGCAGCGCCCAGCAGATGTACCAGAGCCTGGCCGAGCTGGGTACCCTGCCCCCCGAGACGGTGAGCGGGCCTGGGCCCTCCCCTCTTCTCCCGTGGGCACAGCCCCCACGCTCCGCACCCTCACTGTGCTAGGGGTGCAGAGTGAATGCCCACCTGAGGGCAGACCGGGCAGGGGAGGCCAGGCCCCCGGCGCAAGCACTTTCCCCGCTTCCTGGCCGCGTGCGCGCTCACCGAGCGCTCTTCCTCCAGAAGGTGTTCTGCGGCCACGAGCACACGCTTAGCAACCTGGAGTTTGCCCAGAAAGTGGAGCCCTGCAACGACCACGTGAGAGCCAAGCTGTCCTGGGCTAAGGCACGGCCCCTTTCCCGCCGCGGCAAGAGGGTGGGGGGGGAGGGAACAGGCTTCGGGGTGGGGGGGGCTCTCAGACAAGGCCTAATGGTGACCGGGGCCTGTGGTCACTCCAGAAGAGGGATGAGGATGACGTGCCCACTGTGCCGTCGACTCTGGGCGAGGAGCGCCTCTACAACCCCTTCCTGCGGGTGGCGTGAGTATGGCTGTTGTCCCGGGGCCTCCACCGTTACGTGGACCCTTAGGAAGGCATCTGGGGACTGCGTGTTGGGCTGAGTGAGCATCTCTGGCTTGGGGGAGGCTGCTCATTAAGTGCCTGCCTGCCCGCCCACCCCTCGGCGCCATGCTCCCGCGTGGGCAGCGGGCCCTGCGCCTCACTGCACCCCTCCCTGCAGAGAGGAGCCGGTGCGCAAGTTCACGGGCAAGGCGGTCCCCGCCGACGTCCTGGAGGCGCTATGCAAGGAGCGGGCGCGCTTCGAACAGGCGGGCGAGCCGCGGCAGCCACAGGCGCGGGCCCTCCTTGCGCTGCAGTGGGGGCTCCTGAGTGCAGCCCCACACGACTGAGCCACCCAGACCCTCACAGGGCTGGGGCCTGCGTCCCTCCTCGTGACCTCGGCCAGCTGGACCCACATGAGGGCCACCTCTGGAACCTTCTTCGAGGCCCTGGCCAGCCATCTGCCCAGCCTCGGAGGGTGGGCAACCTGGTGCTTCCCGGGTGGACACACAGGACCACTCAGTGGGGCCTGTGTGGGCGCCGAGACCTGGGTGTCTGGGAAGTGGGGCACACGGGGCCTCCGAACTATGAATAAAGCTTTGAAAGGCCGTTGTCAGTGTTGGCAGATGTGCCAGGAGAGGAGCTGTTTTCGTAGGCGTGTTTTAGGAGGGGTGCGTTTATTAGACAAACGCTGGGAGACAGGCCTGGTGGGGACCTGGCTGGGGGATGATGCAGCCCGCGATGGCTGCTGCTTCGTACTTGGCTTGCCCCGGACCACAGCCTCGTAACGGTAACCCCTGCTTTCCAGGGGCCTGGCACCCCCCCCTGCCAGGGTCCACACGCAGGGTTGTGGCGGGACCACCCCTGCAGGTCCAGCTCTGTCTCCCACCTTTTGCACAGAGCTTCAAGGGAAGCCTCCAGAAGTCAGGGGTGAGAACCCGTCTTGCTCTGCCTCAGGCAACCCCGGGACAGGCTGAAGCCCCTCACGCACTTGGGTGCCCGACCAGCAGCAGCAAGGGCAGCACCTGTGGGCCTCGGCCCAGGGCCAACGGAACAGGCTCTGGGACCTCAGGGAACCTTCTGCTGCCTGGGCCACCCCACCCCACCTGGGCAGAGCCAGTGGGAACCCAGAGGCACCCAACTGGAGGTGACGAGGCGGCTGCGGGTCCTGGCTAGTCCTAGCTCCTACTCGGGTCCCAGCACACCCTGCAGCTCACTCAGAATTTTGGGGGAAGCCCTGGGGTCTTGGGGCATGTGGTTCTGCTGTCACACATGGACACGGCCTCCTGGGAGTCCTGGTCCTGCAGCCCCTACCACCGGATGCCCAGGCCAGTGCTGGCCTTCTCCACGGCGTGGTACTGCGTATGCAGCAAGCGACCTGCACACTCCGAGTCCGTGCCCTGCAGCCAGTGTGTGTACAGCTCCTGAACCCCAGGCGCGTCCTCGGGCGCCTCAGCCCGGACCATGCCGTACAGTCTCTCCACGTGCTGGAGGAGCTCTCTGCTGGGCCTGTCTGGGGCCTGGAGCTGGCCCCCGCCGTTCAGGCAGCCTATGGGAGAGCAGACGGGACAGGGGTCACAGCCTGCGCCCCAGCCAAGCTTCCTGACCACCAGGGAGCAGGGAGGTGACCGGGCCCCCTCTGTGCCCCACTTCCTCCCACTCCCAGCCTGGTGGATGGTGGCCCACAGCTCTGCTCCCAGAAGGGGTCCTCGTGTCCTGTCCCTTGCAGGAGCTACCTGAGGGGCAGGCCATGACCTCCACGTAGTGGTAGGGGCAGCGCCCTCGTTTGAGCCTCTGCACCAGGTTCTGGATGTTGCGGAAGCCGTACGCCATTGCGAAGTGCAGCAGCACCTGGCCCTCCTTCTCCAGTGTCACCTCCTGGAAGTCTTTGTTCCTGGGGGGCACAGGCGGGGTTTGTCTACATGGCACACCCACCAGGCTCCTGCCTGCCTGGAAGGGGAGGCCTGCTGGGCTTCAGGGGATGACCGGGTACCTCCCAGGGCTCTCTCCCTCTCTCCTGGGCAGAGGGAAGGACAAGAACGGAGAGAGAGGGTGGAAGGCTCACTTCCTTGAGTCCAGCAGGGGACCTCACCTCCAGCCTCGGGCTGTCTGTGAAACAGGCCTCCCTCCCCAGGGATGTCTGTGAGGCCCTGGCCCTCCCTCCTGGGATGTGGTCGCGTGCCTGCGCCAGGCACCCATCACCTTTGCCCATGCTGGCCTCTCGGGCTCAGGGTCACCATCCCCCACAATGGGCCGACTGAGGCCTGGAGTGCTTAGGTGCCTTCACACCCTGAGCCCGCCAGGAGGGCCCTGCCTGGCCCCAGGGTCCCCTCCAAACCCTGCAGGCTGCCCTCCACCCAGCCCACCTCTGTGGGAGGACCCCAGGGGAGGCAGCAGCCCGAGGAAGGCTGGGGGCTGTGTGGCCGCTCTGCCCAGAGATCTGGCCCATCCCACTGACCTCAGGGGTTTGTAGGTAACCTCAGCCACATGGATTCCAAAGAGCTCTCGGGCCGCGTGCCGGAACACGTGCTCCAGGTAGCCCCCCGAGCCCCCTCCCCGATGGCTGGTGGGCTCCTCTGCAGAGGCACCGCTGCACCTGGCAAGGAGGGAGGGGCCTCAGCACAGCTGGGGCTGCTGCCTGCCAACCTCCCGAGCAGGGCCTCTGTCCCTCACACATGAGCGTTTGCATTTCCAGGTGGGAGACAAGTCACAGACACAGAGGAACAGCTCCTGTGTCACCAGCCATCACAGGGGCCCAGCCACttcttgtttttttttttgagacggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatcttggctcactgcaagctccgcctcctgggttcaagcaattctcatgcctcaacctcccaagtagctgggattacagggcctggcatggattaccaccatgtctggctaaattttgtatttttagtagagatgaggtttcaccatgttggccgagctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatctgcccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctggggtgacaggcgtgagctactgcgcctggctATCCAGCCACTTCTGTGGACGCCAAGATGGGCTGCGGGGAGGCAAGCCCAGAGCAGGGGGATGCTATCCTCAGAGGCAGCGTTAGAAGCTAAAATAACAGTTCTTGGTGGCAGACATACGTACAGGCTGTCCAGAGGGGCTGGTTCCAGGTCGGGGAGGGAGACGCCCTCTTCCTCCAGCAACCTGAAAACTTCTCCTGCAAAGAAGCCACAGCGCAGACACTCTTTAGCGGAGATCCCAGCAACAAAGTCAGAGAACATCCAAGCCACCTGCATCCCCAGCAGTCTGCACTTTGGCCCCAGAAGGCCCCAAATGTCCACCCTAGCCCGTGGTGGGGAGGCCAGGCCCGGTCACTCCTGAAGCCCCTCTGGAGGCTGCCTGGTCCTGCCCAGGGAGGTGTGCCAGCGGCCAGGCCACTCTGCTCACCCAGTGTCCATCTGTCCATCCTCTTAGGCAGTCTGCttttcttttttttttgagacggagtctcactctgccgcccaggctggagtgcaatggtacgatctcggctcactacgacctctgccccccgggatcaagtgactctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggagcaccaccactactcccggctaattttcgtatttttagtagacatggggtttcatcatctcggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcgtgatccacccacctctgcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccatgcccggccACAGTTTGCTTTTCTGCCTCACATTTGGGAGACTGTGGGGCTGCTCGACTCAGGAATGGGGTGACTCATGGGAGCTGAAGAGGCTGCATTCGAGAATCTCTGCCCACCTCCAAAGACTCATTTCAGAGCCAACAAGGAGGTATTACTGAGCGCCACCTGGCTGCAGGTCCCCAAGACAGGCCAGCTGCAAATGGGCCCACCTGGCTCCAAGGGGAGAGACGAAGGTACGTGCACGCATGCGAGCCCCCACACTCCAGCCAGGGCCCCCACAGGCAGGATCCTGGGCAGTCGCCACCTGTGCCCAGGGCTCAGGAATCAGACCAGGAGGCTTGAGGGCTCAGGGCCGCACGGCGTGACCGCACCTGTTGTGAGGACACAGTCCACATCCCGTGTCTGGTGCTCCTGGTTGAAAAAGTCGGGTCTGGAGGCTTCCAGCTTTTTGTCATAGCAGGGCATCACTGTGACGTGGTAGATCTTGTCAGGGGTCAAGTGCTACAAGGAGAAACAAACACTTGTCTCCCCAATCCCAGCAGTAAGGTGGCTGAGACGGGACCTGGAACTCAGCCATCCTGCAGCCAGGCCGGACCCCGAGGGACAGTGAGCCTCACTCCATTTCCCAGCAAGCCTCCTGCCGGCTCTGCGGATGTGTCCCTGGACAGGACGGGCCCTGGCTGTGACAGAAAATGACACTGACCCATTCCCAGTGTGCCTGCGCTCCCTAACAGCCAAGTCCAGCGGAGGAGAAGTGGCCTTCCCACGGCTCGGGCCGGCTCACTGCACAGCAGCCGGGGAAACGGATGTCACGGGGGAACCAACCAGCTCCAGCCCCGGGTGAAAATCCGCGTGCAGTCAGGCAAGAGGTGCCGCAGGGGACATGGGCGCTCGAGGCCCAGGCACCACCGGGGCCGCCCTCGCCCTCTCCCGCCCCCTGCTGGCTGAGTGTCTTCAGGCTTCTATCCCGCTGGGCCTCAGGTGGGGGTCGTGCTGGGCATCCTCGTGGACCTGGTGGCCGGAGGGGTGGGCTCCAGGCCCGGACTGCCCAGGGCCTCCTGCTCCCTCAGCCTCAGGCCTGGCTGCCTCTGGGTGAGCAGTGAGCACCTCTGGATCAGAACGAAGCCCTCTGCTGCAGAAGAGGAAGGGCCTGAACCAGGAGGGAACAAGGGTGGAGGTGTGCTGGGGAAGGCCGCACAGCACAGCGAGGACTCTGTTTCCTGCAGCCTCATGGCAAGAGGCCAGCAAAGTCACTTCTGGCCGCTCCCCAGCCTGAGTCTGGGGCTGGCCCAACGCCGTTACCTGCTGCTGGGCGAAGAAGTCCTTGACCAGGGAGCCCATGACCTGCTGCGGGGACCGGGCGGTGCTGATGTGGGGGAGGATGAAGCTGCCGTGAGTCTTCTCGGCATAGCAGATCCAGCCTGAGGTGACAGGGGGCACACGGGGCTGGCGGGGGCGCACGGCGGCCCCCGCACCCACAGGCAGCAGCACGACATTCTGGGGGCGGGCCCGCTCATACAGGAGATCATGATGACATTAAAGAGTGCTCATTCCTGTTCTCCCCACCACCACGCGGAGCTCGGCGTGCAGGCGACACCGCCTAGGGACCTGAGGTGACTGCGCGTGGCTCCCACGGGAGGGCAGCCTCTTCTCCAGAAAAGGCCATTTGTGCCAACATTTCCAACCCGTCCCGCAAAACCTGCTTGCGTCTCCACCCCCCATGCCCCCGCCTTGTCATTTGTGTCCATATCACCTCACGTTTCAACTGCACTTGAACTTGACTCTCCCACCACCCGCACCATGAGCACACCTGGGCAGGCAGAGGCCAGCAGGGGCAGCGCCTGTCTGCAGTCGGCCTGTCCTCGGAATCGCCGCACAAACTCTCGCTGGCTCTCCAGGAGGCTGAAGTGCCTTGAGAAGGCGGTGTCGAAGACGAAGTGCACCCCTGGAAGGTGAAGGTGGGTGCCTGGTTAACCCCATGCGGGACGCCCACACGAGCACACGCCGGCGTGTGGACCACCATGGTGCTGCCAGGGCACGTGTGTCGCACCTGCTTGCCGTGCCAAAGCCCCGGCCCCACCGTGGGGACCTCCTAAAGCCACGTTGCGCCAAAGCCCCAGCCCCACTGTGGGGACCTCCTAAAGCCacgttgcctcggcatcccctgtgaacccaggccttggtttcccaccccagaggcagccacccagcagctcagtcctccaccctcccagctcttcagcgtggctggtccagggaattgccacgtgcgctgctcccggtgaccctccctagggcacagctggacgcagcctgctggactggcccctcggaccctgactgtgcagacctaccatagtggccacccctcacacacagcaggactcctggaacacgccagccagctccaagcccagccattagaactgctcagtaaacctgcctgatcgtgccctggacccagcagaggcacccgcgtgtgggtccctctctctctgcctgacttgtcattcctccctcgcgtaacccgtggtcggaggactcgctgtgccccacttgcccgtcatcatcatctctaagtaaaaatctttgaacttgcttcctattctggtggggacgaaatccacaccttccatctggagaaccatgggctgccccaggccaggttttccctgggacaccaggtcaggctcccagtgccagagcactgctcaggcaccaactggatatgggtcagacaggagccatggggcacctgccagtgtcaccaggtttccagtgtgagggacctgggacacagctggatgacaggcagtctgctggttacaaggcgcacaggcctgcctcactgggaatgaagggactggacatggtggttacctgtgaaaggcacacagtaaccatgaggtccagccccttcattcccagtgagacaccaggcactggagcctagttagctgggggctctcaagacaCCCAGATCCTCCCCAAGCCCAGCTCCAGGCACATAACCAAAGTCAGCAGAAGCTGACCTTGGCTGAACCCAACAGAGCCCCGGAGAGAGTGCCTTAATATTATCAGCTAAAAAGTACAAGGAGTTGGTCAGCCCCAGCTTAGAGAAAGTGCACAGTCAGAATGCAGACGTGTTCTGTGAGAAGGCCCTGCTCTCAAATGTCAAATCAAAACTTCAGGCTGAGGTCACAGAGGGAATAAAGTTTCTGTAGCGCTGAAGTTCAGGGCTGGGTAGCGTGTCAGTGACTCAGAGGCGCGAGGGGCCTGGGCTTACTCAGACGCCCCCTTGATTTGGAGCGGCAGTGTTACCCCAGGTTCAAAGCCTACCTATTTTTTTAAAGAATGAGGTTAATTTCCTGGCAGTATCTGTAGGATTCAGCTGAAACCGTGCAGCCAGCGATGCTCTAGACTGTGGTGAGACCGAAACTACAACCAGCCTCTGCTGACTGGGTGCCGCCATCTGCAAAGCAAGGGGAAGACGCTGCTTACTCTGCTGGCCTTATGCTGATTCCTGGTGGCCAGAGCCGCACGGTGAGATGCTGTCAGCTGTGGAGAGGGCAGGCCAGCTCCATCAAGAGtcttttttttttttttaacacagagtctcactctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatcggagctcactgcatgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcagcctcctgggtagatgggattacaggcgtgaaccaccgtgcctggccaaGGGTATCGtttttttttgatggagtctcactctatcaccaggctggtgtgtaatggcgcaatctcggctcactgcaacctctgtctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctctctagtagcttggattacaggcatgtgccaccacacctggctaattcttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttggccacggtggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccacccggctcagcctcccaaagtgctggtatgacaggcgtgagcccccgcgcccagTAGGGGTGTCATTTTGATGTATATTTAGAACCTGAAGTTTGGGGCCTGACACGTTCACCACTGGAGCCCACTGACAAATCACCAAGATTCCAAGCCTCAAAAAGGCAGGCGCCACCCGCACGACGGACGTCGGCACCACACGAGCTGCCCTTGGCAAAACGCGTTGTCGGCTGCTGGGATGGATTTCAGGTTAAAGCAGAGTCACCAGGCCGACCACTGCTTACCTTGTTAGCATCTAGAACCTTCTTCAGCTCCTCGTGGCTCTGCTGGGTGATAAGCACGGTCTCTGCGGAGGTGATGCAGCCGCTGCACGCCAGGCAGTCGTTTAGCGAGACCTTGGCCTTCTCCAGCCTCCGGGTCCCGCCGTCCTACAAGGGAGAAGAACCCGGTGCACAGGGGCCCCCTCTGCACGAGGACATGGAGACAGAGGATAGTGGAGTCCAGCTCATAACCGACAACCAACATGGCTGCTGGCTGGGCTTGTGTGCCGCTGAATTTTTAAAAATTAGGTATGTATTACAAAAATGCACACGCACGCTCTACAGTTTCATAATGCCGTCAAGTCTGCTTCTTGGTACCACTTGGTTAGTGCATCCGAATCACAGGACTAAGGCTTGCCACTGGTATCTCAGCAAAGCAGCAGCCACCCCACTCACCCATGGGGCCCTGGACGGGGTGCTGGCCCCGGTGCACACTCACAGGGCTGTAGGGCAGGAAAATGCCGAAGGTGGGCTCTGAAAGGAGGAGGCGGGAAAGCTGAGGACAAAGGAGGAAAGGACGAAGGCACAGGAAGAGGAGAGCAGAGGGAGGAAGCCTGGGAGCCTGGCCTCCGGTGGGCGGGGCAGAAACAACCGTCAGACTCGCCAAACAGATGCAGGAACAAGGTGTTCCAGTCGGGGGCCTCCGGGACATGCCTCAGCAACTTTTCTTACATGCAAAACGCACCCAGCTCGAGCTCCCCCAACTTCTCCTGCAAAGGCAGGAATGGTTTGAGCAGGGCCAGGGGTGCTGCAGTGGCCCGGAATACAGCCAGAGGAGTAAGGCGACTGGGTGGGAACTGTGTGGGAACCCCTCGCAGCCCAGCTCTCTGCTAGGCCTGTGTATCACAATCTGAGCTCGCCTTGTATTCCTACGTTGGTTCTGCCCCAAGGCACAAAGCCTTGCCTGCCACAGGGTGCTGGGCAGAGGCTGACAGGCTCCTCCAAACCAACTGCCACTGCACCGACAGCCACGCCTACCAGCACCCCAGCACCTTCCAGGGGTTCCCTTCGTTTGTGGGCTGGGCCCCCAGTGCTGGGCTGGAAATCGTCTCTTGGTGCAGTGGTTCATGAGATCAGGCAGACGTTTTTTAGAGTCCAAATGGCAGACAGGTGAATTTTAATAGtttctttttttttttttttttgagatggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctagagtgcagtggtgcgatctcggctcactgcaaactccgcctcccaggctcacgccattctcctgcctcagcttcccggtagctgggactacaggcgccggccaccacgcccagctaatttttttttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccacccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcctgagccaccgcgccaggccCAGtttctttatttttttgagatggagtctctgtctctcaggctggagtgcagtggagcaatcttggttcactgcagtccctatctcccaggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcaccctcttgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcgccacgacacccaactaatttttgtatttttagtacagatgggggttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccgccccccctaccctggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaagcgtgagccaccgcgcccagccTGAATTTTAACAGTTTCATCAGGATCTTATCACTTAGAGAGGAAGTACTATTCTTTAAGAATGAGGGGTCTGggctgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggtggatcacgaggtcaggagattgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaacattagctgggcgtggtggtggccgcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacctgggaggcagagcttgcagtgagccgagatcatgccactgcactccagcctgggccatcgagggagactctgtATcaaacaaacaaacaaacaaacaaacaaaAGAACGAGGGGTCTGAATTAGAAAATCTTACATGGTTAGAACTAGGGGGAACAGGCAGACGCAGACAGGATCCACCATCTCTGCAAATAGCCCCTCTGCTGAGCAGATCAAGCTGTTTGGCCTGGGTGCTGCTCATTCACCTGCCCCAGGCACCCTGACCCCCAGCCTCCCAGATGGCAGGTGAATTCGACCAGTGGGAAAAGACTGGTGAGACCTGGAGTGTCTCGGGGTCACCGCTCTGTGACGGGAGGAAGCAGAGAAAAGTGTTTCGGATCAGCCGGGCAGGAGAGATGGTGGAGCAGCCTCCTGTGCCTTACTTGGTTAATTTGGAAGTAGCTCCCGTCATCTTCAATGCGAATCTTGGCCACGCCACTTCCCGCCCTTTTTTCCACTTTGACAGGCTTGATGCACTCCTAGAGCAGGAAGAGACCCCAAATCAGCCCCTGTGAGTGGGCGGAGGTTCCCTGGGAGGCCAGGCCTCAAGGATGGCTGCCCAGCCGCACAGCCTGAAGGCTCTGCCAGGAGCCATGCACTCAGGGACTGAGGCTGGTCCCACCGTCTTCTTCCTGCCCCACTGCTCTCACCCAGGGATCGGGTTCCCAACATCCTGCGGCACTGAAGTTCCCAGTGTGCAGGAAGGCCAGTGCTAACAGCGCCTGCAAACTACCCACCTGCGGAGACACCACCAACACTGACCTTCACCCTTCACGTGAACAGGGGGCGTGACCACCACAGAGACCAGAGTTGCACTGCCCATCGAGAGGACGTGTGCTTGGATCTGTTTGGAGACCACCTCCTGCTCAGTGCCCGGGAAACAAGTGGATTTCTCTCTCTTCTCCTTGAGAACCCTGGCAGCCCAGAAAGCCGCCTCCCAGCTCATCCCTGCCGGAAGCGCTCCCAGCAGCCCGCCTCTCGCCCTGCTCAGCTCTGGCCCCGCGGGGCTGTTGGACATGGACAGGCAGGTGCACCCAGAAAAGGGCGCCTGCAGCCTCCCGGGTTCAAGGGTAGCTGTCCGGCCCACCAGGGCGACGTTAAGGACAGCTCTACTGAGGAGCCACTGCGGGGCGTCTAGCGGGCCGCCCCTACTGCCCTCAAATGAGGTGGGGTCCCCACCGCACCCGTTTATGCAGATGCAAAGGCTGTGGCTTGGGGGTCCTGAGGCCTGACAAGGCGTCCTGCGCAGGGGAAGGGGAAGAggccccggcccgggccccgccgcccTCCAGCTGCGACCCAGGGGTCGGGTTAGGGTTAGGGATGTGTGGGAGCCGCCTCTGCTGCCTCCTCTGGGTTGGGCAGGCCGGCGCGAGCCCGCGACCACGGGACCCTCCCACGCAGCCCGCCCGGACACCATGGGGCACAGGAGCGGGTTGGGGGGCGCCGCCCTCCCTGGCCTCAGTTTCCTTGTTGGTAAGAAGCGGGCCTCAGTGTCTGAGGCCCCGCGCCCGGGTCGATAGAGTCCCTGACGGCCCAGACCGGGCTCCCGGGATTCGGATCTCATTCCTCAGGGGAGGAAGTGGGGCGCAGAGCAATTTCCCTCCGCGCGACAGGGCACCGAGCGCAGCCTCGACCCCGCCCGCCCAGGCCGGCCCACCTGAGACGGCCCGATGAAGTCATCCAGGTCCGTCAGCTGCAGCGCCCCGCTGAAGGGCGACGCCATGACGGCCGCACTGCCGCCGCGCGCAGGTGTCGCTAAACGGCGCGAAACGAAGTGGCTGGTTCCGCCACGCTGCCGGAAAGCGCCCCCAGGACGCATGCGCACCTCGTCCCGGGGCCGGCGCCCTCTGCTGACGAGCCCCGGCGCTGCGGCTCCCCGCCCACCTCGCGGGAACCCGGGACCTACCGCTTCGTCCACCTCCCGCGCGCCCCAGGCCCCGGGTTGGGGTGCAGGGGGCGCAGGGGTTGGTCGGGCCAGCGCCGCAGCTCCGGCCCCGGAGTCTCTCCGCCTTCACAAGGAAGCGGAGGGGATCTGGCTCCGTCCATTTCCTCATCCTCTGCGTACCTGCGGACCAGGTGCTCCCGGATGCAACCCAAGAACCCGGAACGCGCCTGGCACACAGGAGGCGCTCAGCTCGTGTTGGGGAATTCAGGCAGGGAAGAAAGCATGGATAGGCACGAGGTCTCCCCTTCCTGGGGAGCCGCTCCCAGGGCCTCCAGCCCCTTTTTCTGTTATCTTGGAGACCAGTCTGGAAAAGTCCATGCCCCTGGGAGACCCTGAAACAGGACCCTGTGGGCCGACTCGCttttcgtttttttctttttttgagacagagtctcgctctgtcgtccaggctggagtgcaatggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaagctctacctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccaccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgaactcctgacctcgtgatctgcccgcctcagcttcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccgaccCCGACTCACttttttttttttcttttttgagacagagtctcactctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgccgcctgggttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcttcccgagtagctgggattacagtcacctgccattgcatccggctaatgtttgtagttttaattagagactgggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtcttgaactccttacctagtgatccacccacctcagcctcccaaagcgctgggattacgggcatgagccaccgcgcctggccAGTTACATGTATATCTGGCATCATATGGCCAGTTACATGTCTAATGGCCAGTTTTATGGGGACTTTTCAGGAAACTCCTGGATCGAGGCTGGCATCTTTCCGGCCCAAGCAGGCTCAGCCCATGGAGATCTCACAGTGGCAACATCCTAGGTCCCAGCCTGCGCCGCACCCTCCCCAGGGTTCTAGGCCCTGATTCTGACCACATGTCCCCACCTGGATGCGGCCTGGGCACTCCTGCACCTGCCTGTGGGGTTTGGGCCACCAGCCTGTGTGGCCTTCTCCATCACCTGCAGCTGCTCCTCTCGGCCAGACAGGACTTTCTTCTGCTGCTGCACGGAGGAGCTTTCCCCAGCACCTGGGCCAGGTGAGCTTCCAGGTCCCAGCCATCCCGCCACCTGGCAATACCTGGCCGAGCTTGGAGATTAGGGGCTGAAATATCTTCTATTAAAAATAGAACAGGGggtcgggtgcggtggctcaccagcgctttgggaggcccaggtgggtggatcacccgaggtcaggagtttgtgaccagcccagccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctactaaaaatacaaaaattaggctgggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcacattgtggggctgaggcaggtggatcatttgaggtcaggagttcaagaccaccctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatataaaaattagcccagcatggtggtttgtgcctggaatcccaggtactaaggagggtgaggcaggagaatcgcttgagcctgggaggtggaggttgtggtgagctgagatagcaccattgcactctagcctgagcaacagactaagacactgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaacttatcaggcgtggtggcacgtgcctgtagtcctagctactcgggagtttgagacaggagaatcacttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagctgagatcgcaccattgtactccagcctgggcgactgagcgagactccatctaaaagaagaaagaaaaacaaaaCACGAggccgggtgcgatggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcacttcgggaggccgaggccggcagatcatgaggtcaggagatcaagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaatataaaaaaaaaaaaattatccgggtgtagtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctactggggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagacggcaccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagggcgagaccccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagaaaaaaaaTACGAAAGAAACTTAGTGCCACTGAAATGCAGTGGAGTGGGTTTACAGAAAATGTGAGAGTGAGGAGGGCTGTTGGGATAAGGGAAGGGTCTTTAGGTGAGCTTCCTCTTGCTGCTCCGGGTGGAGCTGGGGCGGGGTTCTTCATTAACTCACAGACATTTCCCTGGAGCCCCTGAGCTCTAGTGCCAACCTCGTGCCTCTGGGGTCCCTGCTTTCTGTTTTGCAGATTGTTTAAtcatcgtcattagcgagtatttaccatgcacttcccacgtgctagtccctgagccagggccagggaACCCAGGGAGGGCACGGGGGGACACGAGGGCCGGCTGGGGACATAGGGCGAGGCCGGCCGGACCCCAGGTTGCTGTGATGCTGTGACTGTGTATGGGCACCCCCTTTCCCTGGGCTGGAAGGGATGCCTGGTGGAGGCGTCTGCTCTGCGGGCACCCACAGGACCCCCCTTTGCCTACAGCCGCCCCCGGTGGTTGGGTGGGAGGTTGCATGCTAGCATCCTCTTGCTGGTCCGGGGTCATGATACTGGTAGAGCCACCTGGTCCCCTCTCCTGGGTTGGTGTCAGAGCTTCACCCTCGGAAGGGATCATCCTGTGCCTgtctcctgaggctcccgtaacaaatgacaacacgccggggtgaaagcaacagagatgcgtcccctactagctgtggaggccacacatctgaggtcatggtgtcattcaccgtgctccctctggaggctgcagggaggacccttcctgctttctccagcttccaggggctccagttgtccttggtctgtgacTGTGTCGCTCCAGCACAttttttttttcttgatacagtgtcttgctctcttcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgtgatcacagctcactatagcctcagcctcccgggctcaagagatcctccggcctcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggtgtgcgccaccatgcctggctatttttactgttattattattattattattCttttgagatggagtctcactctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcaccatctcagctcactgcaagccccacctcctgggttcacgccattctcctctctcagcttcccgagtagctggtactacaggcgcccaccaccacacgtggctaatttttttgtatttttactagagacggggtttcaccatgtgttagccaagatgggcacaatcttctgacctcgtgatctgccggcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattataggcatgagTAttattattattttttgagacagagtctcactctgtcacccaggctggaatgcagtggcacaagcttggctcactgcaacctctgccttccgggttcaagcaattctgcctcagcctcccaagtagttgggattacaggctcctgccaccacgcctggctaatttttgtattttcagtagaaatggggtttcaccatgttagccaggatggtcttgatctcctgacctcatgatttgcccacctcagccttccaaagtgcggggattacaggcgtgagccactgcacccggcctttattattatttttttttgagacggagtttcgctcttgttgcccagactggagtacagtggcaggatcttggctcactgcagcctctgcctgcaggattcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagcagctggtactacaggagtccatcaccaggcctagctaatttttatatttttattaaagacggggctgggcgcgttggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggccggcggatcacaaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcctggctaacgcggtgaaaccccgtctctactgaaaatagaaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcgggtgcctgtagtcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacctgggaggtggagcttgcaatgagctgagatcgcaccactgcactgcagcctgggcaacagagtgagactctgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaaagacagggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgggctcaagtgatccttccacctcggccccccagtgctgggattacagcgtgagccactgggcctggccTGGTTGTATCTTTTGGGAGGCTGCCCTTCAGCCACCACAGCCCTCATTTCAGGTTCTTGTGGGACCCTCGACAAAGAGATGCTTTCCACCTCCTAACCGGGTATGTGGCTCAGGGAGGCTGTGTGGGGGCTGGGCTGGCCCGCAAGGGGCGGGCGGGGTGGAGGTGGGGCCTGTGAGTCCGGTGGACGGGATGCAGCCCAGGTTGGCTGAGGGCCGGCAGGTGGTGCTGCGGAGCCCACGGGGGCCGGCAGGTGCCACAACCCCGTAAAGGGGGAATAAACCCCCCTCAGGTCAGGAGTTCCTGGGGAGGAGAGCTGAGTTTTCCAAAATTAACTAATTTTTCCTGAACGTCTGATTTCAAAACGTTTACTGAGCTTTCCTGTGTTCCATCAAGGCCTCTGCTTCCAGGAACTGGGAAAGGAGAGGTGGGGTCACTGCGGGTCTGTCTGGCTGGGTGGCAGGAGGGGAGAGGTGGGGTCACTGCGGGTCTGCAGGGCTGCAGGAGGGGAGAGGTGGGTTCACTGCGGGTCTGCCTGGCTGGGCAGCAGGAGAGGAGGTGGGTTCACTGCGGGTCTGCCTGGCTGGGCAGCAGGAGAGGAGGTGGGTTCACTGCAGGTCTGTCTGGCTGGGCAGCAGGAGGGGAGAGGTGGGGTCACTGCGGGTCTGCAGGGCTGCAGGAGGGGAGAGGTGGGGTCACTGCAGGTCTGTCTGGCTGGGCAGCAGGAGAGGAGGTGGGTTCACTGCAGGTCTGTCTGGGCGGGCTGCAGGAGAGGAGGTGGGGTCACTGCGGGTCTGTCTGGGCGGGCTGCAGGAGAGGAGGTGGGTTCACTGCAGGTCTGTCTGGCTGGGCAGCAGGAGAGGAGGTGGGTTCACTGCAGGTCTGTCTGGCTGGGCAGCAGGAGGGGAGAGGTGGGGTCACTGCGGGTCTGTCTGGCTGGGCAGCAGGAGGGGAGGTGGGTTCACTGCGGGTCTGCCTGGCTGGGCAGCAGGAGAGGAGGTGGGTTCATTGCGGGTCTGTCTGGCCGGGCTGCAGGACGTGCACTCAGACTCAGCCCGTGTGGTTTCCAAGGCCCGAAGGACACACCAGGCCAGATGCCCCCATCACACACAGGGCTAGGGAGCAGCAACTGGGGTCCACGGTGGTTCCGCCCCACCCCACCCCGCAGGGCCACCCTCCGAGAGCAGTGCTATTGTTGGTTCTCGCCATAGAACCTGGGTTTAGGTTTGGGGGCCCAGGGGCTGCCTGGTGGGGGGGTGGGGtgatatggtttggttctgtgtcctcacacaaatctcatctcgaactgtaatccctgtgtcgagggagggaggtgattggatcatggaggagggtttccacatgctgttctcgtgatggtgagttctcacgggggctgctggtttataagtggcagctccccctccactctctcgcctcctgccacgtgagacgtgcctgcgtccttcaccttccgccatgatcgtaagtttcctgaggcctccccagccctgtggaactgggagttaattaaacctctttcttttatttttatattttttatttttgaggcagagtctcactcttgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcaatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcctgagttcaagcgattctcctgcctcaacctccgagtagctgggactacaggtgcccaccaccacacccggctaatttttgtatgtttagttgagacaaggtttcaccatgttggccaggctagtcttgaacttctgacatcaggtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccactgcgtccggccagacctctttgtttataaattacccagtctcaggcagtgtctttatagcagtgtgggaatgaactcacataAGTGGGGAAGGTGAATCCTCCAACTCCCCCACCTGTGTGGCCACTGATGTGCAGGACACCAGGATGAGCTTCCCAGAGGGCCAGAGCCAGGCAACAGAGTGCAGGGTAGGCCAGCATGGCCTTGGGGCGGCGTGGTACCCAACAGGAATGTGGAGATGAggcccgaggtggcggctcacactggtaatggcaacacttcgggagactaaggtgggaggatcgcttgagcccaggagtttgagagcagcctgggcaacatattgagacctcgttcctacaaaataatgagtcggtgcagtgatgcatgcctgtggtcctagctactcaggaggctgaggtaggagaattgcctggacccgggaggtcgaggctgtagtgagccgttattgcaccactgcactccggcctgggcaacagagcaagaccccatctcaaataacagtacaaaataaGTATGGAGATGCTGGCTCCTGTGGGAAGCTGGGTGGACGTGGGGGGCACACCCTCCAGTCTGCAGAAACTTCCCGCCGCTCGGGCTGATGTGCTCGAGGGCTCCCGAGGCCCTGCCTCCCGGGTGGCAGAGGGAACATGGGAAAGGCTGCCGGGCCCCGGGCTCGCCGGTGGGTGGCCCCGTGCAGCCTGTTATTCATAAAACTTGGAGAGAAAGTGCCTTTTTGTAGGAAAGTGTGGGGTGCTGGCGGCCATTTCCACCTGTGGTTGGACCCAGACTGCCTCCCCGCGTGTGGCCCATGCCCCACCCCACACGCACCCCCGCCCTCTGTCAAGCAGGACTCGGGCTCTCCGTTGGCCGAGCAGACGTTTTATTTGTGGAACGGAATTGCTGTCGGGATGGGCGTGGGGTCGTTAGCAGCATAATCAACACCCACATCCACCCTGGGGGCAGCCACGTCTTGTCAACAGGTGGAGGCCGTGACATGCTGCAATTAGCAGCTAATGAGGAGGCCTGTGTGACCCACGCCTCCGTCACAGGTgcgcagtgagctgtggaaacgccgacaatttaaaatagtcgaacagggccgggcgtggtgtctcaggcctgtagtcccagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggaggatcacctgaggtcaagtgttcgagaccagcctggcaacatggcgaaaccctgtcttgactaaaatacaaaaaaattagccgggcgtgatggtgcacgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggccgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaacccgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagccgagattgcgccactgcactccagcctaggcaacagagcgggactccatctcaaaacataaaaataaagtagtggaaaaaaactataggaaaaagaaaagaaaaagctaaaaagaaaatttaacatgtgaaaaagcgtactggccgggtacagtggctcaggcctgtaatcccaacactttcagaggcccaggcgggcgggatctcttgagcccaggagtttgagaccagcctgggcaacatggtgagattccatctctattttaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTCATGTTACAGGAattctaggaatggactgtgggcagttgcatggagatggcctgtaagagctggccaactttcacaaccttcagctttattttgaaatcttgcattgagatgaataaccgcttttctttcttttaggacatagctaaccccagagaatatgttcacattcattttccatgtggcactgcttcggttgaaAttttttttttttcttgagatggagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcctgggttgaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgagattacaggcatgtgccaccatgcccagctaatttttgtatttttaatagagacagggtttcactatgttggccaggatggtctcgatcttctgacctcgtgatccacctgcctcggccttccaaagtgttgggattacaggcgtgagccactgcacccagccATTGTCGAAACttttctttttcttttgagacagagttttgttcttgttgcccaagctggagtgcaatgtcaggatctttgctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagcttgtattacaggcgtctgccaccaagcccggttaatttttgtatttttagtagagacaggctttcgccatgatggccaggctggtctgtaactcctgacctcgtgatccgctcgccttggcctcacaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccatgcccCGTGAGACAAGTTTATTAGAAATGACTCTGGgctgggcgtggtggcaggcacctgtaatcccagctacttgggaggttgaggcaggagaatcgtgggaacctgggaggtggaggttgcagtgagcggagattgtgccattgcaccccagcctgggccactagagtgaaactccgcctcaaaaaaacaaaagaagaggccgagcacggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcaggcagatcatgaggtcaggagatcaagaccatcctggctaacacagtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatataaaaaattagctgggcatggtgaccggggcctgtggtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggtgtgaacccgggaggcagagcttgtagtgagccaagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaaaaaaacaaCGAATGATTCTATTACAAAGCGGACGTGCTCAGAGAGCAGGAAGAACTCGCTGTCCTTTGTTAGTGTTTCTGCTTATAAGAAACTACAAGGAATCTCTACACGTAGACCTGAATGTGCAGCTGTGCTCACCGAAGGTTGGGGCTGCTGGTGTTCCCGGTGACCAATCACCTTCAGCCTCAGCCTGCTCACTGGCGCTTTCTCAGTGAAGTGGGCTGCACTCTCCGGAGGTCTGGACATTCTCAGGCCTGCTGGGAAATGTCCTGTATGGCCATAACTATTTTGCAGCTATTTGCATAACTATTTTGCAGTCATAGTTGGTGGTCAGCTTGGGACATAGCTGTTTTCAGCCCCTAAGCATGAACTTTATACTTGCCTTGTGAGTGCCAAGCTAGGGACTATGAGATGGAGTCACTCTGGTCGTGTTTTATGAGGGTGGAGGCCTGGAAAAGGCAGAGCTTCCTCCATCATAACCATCGTGGTGCCCCTGTCTGGGCCGGCTGTGTGCCAGCATCACAGCCCCCGGACCAAGTACTGCTCCATGCACCGATGTCTGTTTTGCAGAATTGGAATCTCAGCTTCCGGAACCGCCCACTCCACCATCAGCCAAGCCGGGACCACTCCATAGTGCCTGGCCCCTGAGCTGTGCCCATGCTCCTGTGTTGAAGACCTGGTTCCCGtgagggacctggcccctcatttgaactctcggcacctcatttctctcctctgtaaaacggggatagaaggccacctcccaCAGCCCTGACTGCACAGGACATCCTGCTCTGGCCTGGCGGGTGGAGGAAACAGTGGCCGAGCGAGAGGCGCTGACCTCCCAGAGTCGGGAAgcctgggccaaccagggaagacttcctggaagaggtgaccggggcggagaccCAGTGATGCGTCTGCTCCAGGCTAGGGGCTCGGTCCTCTTTTCTGTTTTGACCTCATGGGGGATGGAATTTAGAGCGATGGGAGCAGAAGCCAGCCTCTGAGCTCAGAGCATGGCTACTGCTCTCTGCGAGTGGGTCCTGCTGAGGGATCCTCTGTGGATTATCGGATTAACGTTCAATGCGTCCACACCAGAGGCTGAGCTAGCAAAGCCGGACATCTCTATTTACTCAACTTCTTAAACGCGACGGCCAGTACCCTGACGATTTGGCCATGTGAAAACCAAAGAGAAGAGGTATTTTTTTTTTAAATATGTAGAACAAACAACACCAAAGTTATTTTATTCATTCAAAGTGTGAAAAGGCCAACAATAGCCTGGGGTGGGTGGGGGTGAAGGCACCCTGGCAGCCACCTTCCCTGGCGTCCCTGGCACGGAGCGGTGTCCCTGGCACGGAGCAGCGTCCCtggcatggagcagcgtggagtggggtgggtgtagggaggggtaaggtgagCACGGAAGCGAGGCGCCTGTGAGCGTAGCCAAACGAGGCGCAGAGGAGACCAGAAGGAAAGCCACCCACGGGCTGCGAGATCGCGCAGGGGCGGTGGGAACCAGGGCAGCCTCTTCTCTCCAGGCCTGTTCCCTCCAGGTTCCAGCGTCCCTCTCACCGCAGCCCTTCCTTCTGCTCACGCAAAGCTCCTTGTTCTAATTTGAATTTCAATGGATGTACAAAGGTCAGACCTCAAACCCCTCCTGGTGAACCAGTCACCCAGTCGCTCCCCTGAGCTGGTGGCTTCTCCCTCGGCCCCTGCTTTTCTCCCTCTCCCTCGGCCCCTGCTTTTCCCCCACGTTGGCTGTTTCTCTGGTTTTGGACGTCCCTGCTGCTCGCTGTGCCGTGGACTCTTTCAGGTGCTGGGAAATGTCTTCTGTGTGTTTGTTTGACATCTGCCTCTCAGCTGCCAGTTGGTTCATTCAGTAGAAATCCCCTTCTTTCAGATGAAGTCAGATTTACCAATGCTTTGCAGTGTAGTTTGGTCCCAGGGCCTCGGGGATCTTGCTCCGTTCCCTTTTTTGGTTTCCTCCCCATCTCCACtttttcttttttttttttcccccgagatggagtctccctctgtcacccaggctggagtgaagtggcatgatctcggctcactgcaacctccacctcctgggttcaagcggtttccagctaatttttgtatttttgacagagacggggtttcgccatgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctgaccacaagtgatccacctgactcggccttccagagtgctgggattacaggcctgagccaccacgcccggctttcgtcgcttttaagtgcgtaattcagtggcattatgtacattcagaatgctgtataaccatcaccgctacccatttctagaaatttctcacctcacacagacactgtccccattaaacaataattctccactgctctggctcccggtcgctgctgttttctttccgtctgtgtcttcacctgttctgaatgtttcaaataaacaggctcatacgtttgcacccctcacccccgcaattttttttttttttttttttagaaaatctcgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcgtgatctcaactcactgcaaccttcacctcctgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggcatgagccactgtgtctggttaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccacattggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaagtgatccactctcctgggcctcccaaagtgctggaattacagatgtgagctgccgcgcccatcggatgtgagctgccgcgcccgtccggccggcaaagtgttctcggggttcatccacattgtagcacgtgtcagaatgttactcccttttagggctgaatgatatttcattgaataactaaaaataaaatcctaagtcccacaccaactgaaaggacccccatttggccaaggggaccccaaagaaaaccttaaaacagagttcccaagcatgatgggaagggagtcgggcagcctccttgtacccctcccttctggagttgaggcttaacgaccacccggcattcatgttaaagtacagatcgcaagactgacaaagagactctggcaataagataccaaattataaaggaggcctaaggccctgccgggcagaggttaggtcacgcCTGCTTCTCGCCCTCCTGCTACATGGGTCACTGTGACCCAGTGGAGGGGGCGGACTCTGACACAGCGTccttacgtgaccttacaccttcctttttggtggttccgagttttagagcctgactcctttaaccaattacaagttaaagagaatctgaatacacctggaacacactccccaccccactttgagatatcccacctttagccgggcacggtggctcacgcctgtcctctcagcactttgggaggccaaggtgggcagatcacctgaggtcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcaggtgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcagaagaattgcttgaacccaggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccaagactgtgccattgcactccagcctgggcaacagagcaaaactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagattgctcatcttttagggctgaactgatgtacactgacttatgtattttatgtctgcctataactgctgcctccctggcatgtacaaaaccaaatttctaacctgacagcttcagaatcatacacttgaggcttcctgggcttgttttccctgggctgcagttactcatattggctcagaagaaacctctttgaaatatttcacagaggcggggcgcagtggctcacgcctgtatcccagcgctttgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacctgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagcctgaccaatatggtgaaaccctgtctctagtaaaaatacaaaattagccgggcgtggtggtgggcgcctgtaatcccagctactcaggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgagcctggaaggctgaggaggcagtgagctgagatggtgccattgccctccagcctgggtgacagagcaagaccccgtctcaaaaaaaattttttttccatAGTCTGTTTTTTTCCATGAATAattgtatggatggaccacattgtgtttatctgtctatcagttgatggacaggggttgtttctgccttggccgttatgaataatgctgctgggaacatgggtgtgtgaggatctgttcaagttcccgttttttattcttttgttttgcgggaattgctgggtcatgtggtcattctatgtttaactttttgcagaaccaccaagctgttctccacggaggccacaccctctaacctgctcaccggcagcacacgggggttccTGTCCCGCAgaaccaccaagctgttctccacggaggccacaccctctaacgtgctcaccggcagcacacgggggttcctgtccctccacatcctcatcacagcttgttaAGCTACTAAtttttattttttgagatggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagggcagtggcaccatcttggctcactgcaacctccgcttcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgactcagcgtcctgagtagctgggattataggtgcacgccaccatacctggctaatttttgtattattagtagagatgggattttatcatgttggccgggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcaagtgatccgcccgcctcagccttccgaagtgctgggatgacaggcatgaactactgtgcctagcctaatttttgtatttttagtagagacagggttttgccatgttggtcaggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcaggtgatctgcccgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgggcctagctGCTATTAATTTTTATATCAGttttattgtgttaaacttatgtacaataaatgcatccatttacagtatacaatttcaggctggatgcgctggctcacatctataatcccagcactttgcgaggccaagatgggtgtatcgtttgagcccaggagttcaagaccagcctgggcaacatagcgagaccccatctctacaaaaattagccgggtacagtggcacgcacctgcagtcccagctacttaggtggaggtgggaggatcacctgagccctggaggttgaagctacagtgagccgtgattgtgccattgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcaagacgctgcctccaaagaagaaaataaagcatataattcaaacagtcctggaagttatacacacccacgaatccatcaccacagtcaagacacagagcattttcctcaccttccagagacttcctagagtctctgcagtctgctcctctctcctgctcttgttgagtaggaatccttcattctgatgaagttgcccagcacaggcaaccactgatctgcttcttgtcagaatagattagcttgccttttaaatttttatgtaagaggaatcataccttatgtactctgagtctgcctctttcattgagcataatgattttgaaattcatttatttttttcgtatatgagatggtattgccctttttatcattgggcagtacaccatagtgttaatatgccatactttgttcatctattgatggaagtgtgtgtgtatatatatatatattttttttttttaaaccatttttggctattgtgaatggagctgctgtagatattcatgcataagtctttgtgtgaacacgttttcatttctctcgggacattccttaggagtggaatagctaagtggcatggttgggtataagtttaacttcttaataaagtgccaaacaaaactgcctgtatccatttgcactcccaccagcagcctctgagagttccagttgctccacttccttgccaacacttgtcattgttggtccttaatttagtcattttagtgggtgtgtaatgcgcagtgttgcactgtggatttctcactgcggatggaatttgcatttccttaatgagtaatgtctagtgggtgtgtagtgagtggtatctccttgtggatttcatttgcatttagtgagcggtgatgacgatgagcctcttttcacattcagattgatcgtgtgttgtgtattttttgagacagggttttcacccagggtgtggttatagctcactgcagcctcaaactggcctcaagctatcctcccacctcctcctcccaagtagatgggacttcaggcctgcgtcaccatgcctggctagtttttaaattttttgcagagatggggtcccattatgtcacccaggttggcgtgcagtggcgtggtcatagctcgctgcagcctcaaactcctgggtcaagtgatcctcccacctcagcctaaagtgctgggactacaggcatgcaccatcacacctggcttttgtatctttttgtgtgtgtgtgcagtgtctgtttaaatcttttgcccatttttaaataacagctttactgagagataatccacactatacagctcacccatttaCCCATTGGAAGTACCGTTCGggcccagtgtggtggctgcagcctgaaatcctagcattgggaggtcaaggtgggcggatcgcctgaggtcaggagttcaagaccagtctgatcaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggcgtggtggcacacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcgggctgatcacttgaggtcaggagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtaatcccagctactccggtggctgaggcagaagaatcgcttgaacctgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgagccactgcactccatcctgagcgacagagggagactcatctcaaaaaagaaaaggaaagaaactccataccccttagaagtcagtcctcctgactggtctccctcccgcgggtcttacgaaaccactcatctacttcctgtctctctaaattgacccactctggacgtttcatctaaagggactcgtacgacgtgtccgtgtttccaggctCAGCCGCGTTGCAGCACATATGGCCTGGGttttacgggattgtctgtcttatcattgaactgcaaatgttccttgtcaattctgggtatatgtcatgcaaatatttctcttattctgtggcttggctctttattttcttcacggcatcattcaaagagcagcagtgtcagtcatggtttctgccttctttcttccatctaacaggtctttgcctgttccaagcccacaaacacttcctcttgaatttccttctaatggttttatagtttcagcctttatactcaggcctatggttggctttgagtaaattttgcatataatatgaggtaggaatctacgttctttcaatcacataGACACATAGATATggccgggcatggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggcggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccatcccagctaacacggtgaaactccatctctacttaaaaaaaaaagccaggcatggtggcgggcgcttgtagttccagctactcaggaggccgaggcaggagaatggcatgaacctgggaggcggaggttgcagtgagcggagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcaagactccgtctcagaaaaaaaaaaaaTCACACAGATATTCTTATTTTTCTTCTTTCTTTCTTtcttttttttttcagtagagacggggtttcatcatgttggccaggatggtcttgatctcttgacctcatgatccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccacgcctggGCttttttttttttttttttttttttgagatggagtctcgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtgccatctcggctcactgtaagctctgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaagatggtctcgatctcctgacctcatgatctgcctgcctcggcctccaaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagtcactgcgcccggcAttttttttttttttttttttttttttgagacagggtcttgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcgactcactgcaacccctacctcctgggttcaagtgattcttctgcctcagcctcctgagtaactaggattacaggcatgtgccaccacgcccagttaattttcatatttttagtagaaacggggttcctccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccgcccacctcggcctaccaaagtgctgggatgacaggcgtgcgccaccacacagggccTCATTTAAAGattctttatagagatgaggtgtcactacgttgcccaggctggtcttgaacttctggcctcaacggaccctcccgcatcggcctcccacggtgctggctgaagggtgagccCAGGCTGGCCACAGCGCGTTTTCATCATTGTCCGCAGCTTGCAGTCGGCTGGTTCAGAGCTTAGCCGGGCACATGGGCCCCTCTGAGGCTCCTGTTCAGGGCTCAGCCGTGTCTACGGGGCCCTCCGAGCTCTTCCTGGACCCTCCTCGGCTCCTTCAGTTCAGGGCTCAGCTGGGCACGTGGGCGCCTCCTTGGCTCCTCCGGCTCAGGCCTCTCCTCGAGCTCTGGGCCCTGAGTATTCTGGGCTCCTTCCTTGGTTTCCTTTGGCCTTTGGCCGGGAAAGTTGTGGGTGTCCGTGGCAGCCTGGGCCACTTCACAGCCCCGCAGCCAACCTGCGGCTCCTTCAGAGCAAAGCTGTGTGGACACAAAGGGAACGCCACTCGGAGCTGGCCTCTCCCTTTACCTGTGAGTTCCCGCCCAAGCCGGCTGCCTTCTGTCCCCTCCCCAGAGCCCTTGGGTAACTGGTTTGCTACAAGAGTGTCTGGAATTTTTCAGTTGTTCTCTGCGGAAGGGAGTTTTTAAAAGGCCCTTAATCCCTTCTTGACATTTGTAAGTTGACGCTTACACCTGGCAGCCTTGCTGAATTCTGTGTGCGTGAAGGTCCGATTCCACCGCGAGTCACGATAGAAAACCCACTCTGTGGAGAGACCAGAGATGACCGCCGCGCACACCTCCGTTCAGCACACAAACCTTTGCAGGTGTTCATAGCGGAGGCAGATTCCGTACTGGGGATAAGAGCTCACGACATGCTGGGAGGGGTTTCAGGGGCAGGGAGGGGGCTTCTGTGGCCCCAGGTCAGGAGGAGCAGCTCTTCCATCAGCAGCAGGCAGCCAGCCCAGATGCGTAGGGAAGACAGCTCCCACTTCGCCAGGCCAGAGAGCGCCCGGGGGCAGCTCTGTTCCAGTCGACCCTGCGAGAAAGGGGTGTGCGTGTGCCTGGAGCTGGGCCCCGTCCTGCCTCCCTGACCTGTGTGCTCCCACAGCCCTGAGACGGACGGCTCACAGCCTTGCGAGGCCCACACTGCACTGGGGGTCAGGCTTGTGCTCCCGGGAGTCCTGTCTGGGCTGCGTGGCCACCATCCAGAGCCTGCTGACCTGCGACTGGGGGGGCCAGTGCTCCCTGGGTTTCAGCACCTGAGAATCAGAGTGGGATCCCGTGAAACCTGGGCCCAGGCTCCCACCCACGCCCCACACCCACCCAGGGAAGCCATGAAACCTGGGCCCGGGCTCCTACACATGCCCCACACCCACCCAGGGCAGCCGTGAAACCTGGGCCCGGGCTCCCACCCTCGCCCACCGAGGGCAGCTTTGCCTTCCTGGGCATCCCTCCTCCCCCAGGCCTGGCCCGCTGCCTGTCCAAGGCTCCTGTGCGGGGTCTCCACCCACACATTCCTGGGGCGTGAGGCGCCACCACTCCCTGCTGCCCCGGGCAAAGCCGtcatttgttccctttgacggcccgggaggctgccaggctctccacccccacttcccaattgaggaaaccgaggcagaggaggctcaggtgtggccaatcaccctgcACATCAGAGTTACCCTGGGCAGGGCCCACTGAGACCTGGGAGGGGCCACTCGGGACCTGGAGGGCTGGGGGCTGCCCGGGCGTTAGGGGTAAAGCTCCCTACCCAACTGCGCAGAAGGCCTCAGAGGCCTGGGggctgggcttcccctttcacatcgccctttagaggcccacgtgtgggcattggcccgcgatctgaaaggggctgtcctgttcctcatgggcgctgccagcgccacgcactcctctttctgcctggccggccactcccgtctgctgtgacgcgcggacagagagctaccggtggacccacggtgcctccctccctgggatctgtaagtaacaacctttgagctcttcctgttgtggtgtggatggaatctgcaccttccatctggagaactggggccgccccaggccgggcttccagcaccagagcgatggtcaggcttcagctggacgcagatTTCACCCCGCAGGGCACACGCAGACCCATTTGTTTGGAAGCGGCAGTCCTAAGGCAGTGCAGGTGCCTCCACGGCCCCAGCCCAGCTCTCCTGCAGGTGTAAAGGATGCAGATTCCAGGGCCCCCCATGGCCTGCAGAGGCCCCTCAGAGCAGGAAGGGCCGGGCTCTCGGGGAGCCCCCATCCCAGGTGCTGAGGTCCTTGGGTCACATGGAGCTGGGGTGGGGAGTGCCCAGGTCCCCTGTGATCCGATGGCCACGTTTCCCTCCTGGCTTCACGCACCCCAAGGGCTGGGGGTCCCACTCACTGCCCATTTTCTGGCTGTGGGGGGGGTCTGTTTTCTTCCACCTTCTCAAGGTGTTCAGAGCCTCAGGGGCCTCCCCACTTCCTCTGGGGCCTGGGGGAGTAGAGTCTGTCACCCGGAGGCTGTGTGCCTCCCCGCGACATTCCCCAGTGGCCGGGCCGACCAGGCAGGCTCTGCCTGTGGATGGGGCTGCTGAGCATGAGCGTGTGACCCCCATTTCTGAGCTGTGGGTGGACCCACCGGGCCTGGGCCAAGGTTTTCAGGAGGCAGCTCTATTCTACTCCGCCATGGTGGCCTCCCTGAAAGGGGTGAGTGTAGAAGCCAGTTCCCTCTTCTGCGAGCCCCACCCCTACCCCAGGAGGACAATTCTTGTTCAGGGAGGGTCTCCCCACCCACTTCCCCACCCCACAGTGGCCCACAGGCCCCACCCTAGAGAGTACAAGGGGCTCCCCAGGCTGCTCACTGGCCCAGCCCCGCCCCACCTGGACTGCACCTGAAAATGGGCTCAGAGAGGCCAAGTGGCCCAAAAAGACGCTGCTGGGTGGGAAGGGGCGGTGGCCTCTGTGCCCGCAGTGCCCCTCCTGCCTCAAGGGTGTTGTCTGCCTGGCAGAGCCTGGGGTGTTCACAAAGCCCAGGCACCTGCAGCTGAGGGCAGGGGAGAGGGAAGGGAGCCACATCCAGGCGACGGGGCTGCTCGTCCTCCTGTGCGAGAGTGGGGAGACTCAGGCCAGCCCAAGTGGGCGGCGGCCCCGGTTGCTTGATCTAAGCTCTGCTCACACTGCCCTGCCCTTCTGGGAGAGGGGTGGGCGCCAACTGACTCCTGGGCTGTCTGGGCTGGGGACCGGGATCTCAGACCCAGCCCCTCCCCTGGACAGGAGGAGCCAGTCCAGGGGACAGAGGGCTCAGTGGCTGGAGGGCAGGGCCAGGGTGCGGACACAAGCTGCAGGTACCACAGAAGTTTGCTCTGGGAGCCCCTCCTGGGCCCATGTGGCCCCAGGCTGGCCCAGGACAGAGGCGTGGGGTGGGAGCAGGGGGTCCCATCCTGAGTCACTGCCCTCCACAGACACAGACCATGGCCTTGCCAACGGCTCGACCCCTGTTGGGGTCCTGTGGGACCCCCGCCCTCGGCAGCCTCCTGTTCCTGCTCTTCAGCCTCGGTGCGTACTTGATGGGGCTGCTGGTGAGGTGGGGACGGCCCAGGGGCCTTGGGGGCCAGGCCCCCAGCAAGGCTTTGCCTGCCCCTGCCTTCTCCCTGGAGTGCCTGTGGTGGCCACGTCTCAGCAGCAGTCTCTGCCCCCAGAGGTGACTGGAGCTGGAGATCCAGCCAGGGAGTGATGGGGCTCAGGACACAGTGGGGATGTCTGTGGGATGGGTGGTCTGACCGGCCAAGCAGCCGGGTCTCAGGGAAAGATGTGGAAGGCCGGGCTCCCTGGTGGAGTCCCGACCCCTGTGCCTGGGGGACTGTGATGTCACGGGGTACATGGGCCTGAGCCACTGGCTTCTCTTTGGGGTGTGCACAGGGCTGGCTGTGGGGGCGGCCAGGCTCTGCCTCCTTCCTCCCCTGGGTCAGGGCACAGCCCAGAGGCCCGCCCCCTCCCCCAAGCTGTCCCCTCTGCCCCTTTAGGATGGGTGCAGCCCTCGAGGACCCTGGCTGGAGAGACAGGGCAGGTAAGGTCCCCTCTGGGGAAACAGGGGAGGGTCTTCAGGTCCCAGGTGGGGGTGCCATGCTGTGTTCTCTCTGTCACGTATCCACGGTGCTTGCCAGTTTCCACGGTCCTTGCTTGCAAAGGGGCACCTGGACCTGCATGTGACTGGCCTGGGAGCAGCCAGGTCCAGGGAGCGGCAGAGCTGAAATTGCAGCTGGGTCTGGGAAGTAGATGGATGAGAAGCAGCCAAGCCCATGGGTCTGAGACACAGCCAGGCCTGGGAAGTAGCTGAACTCGGGGAGTACCTGGCCCAGGGGTAGCGGGACCTGGGAACTCCTGCTCCAGAGAGCTGGTCTGAGCCATGTTCAGCAGGCCCTGTGTCCCCAGGAGGCTGCGCCCCTGGACGGAGTCCTGGCCAACCCACCTAACATTTCCAGGTGGGTCTGGGGTCCTCACAGTCCTCAAGGGTGAGGCTCGAGGGGCCCTCGGGACTGAGGGTGGGCAGGGCACCCCATCCCCCAGCATCCCCTCCCCCTTCCTCCTCTGCTCCACCTCAGATCTGACTGGGCTCAGGACTGCGGGAGGGACTGACACCCCTCAGGTGATGGCAACTCCCGGCCCTTGAGGGCGTCACCTGGTCTTGGGGGGAGGTCTGCAGGGAGCACCAGGGTCCTTTGGGGAGAGGTGGGGCTGTGGGGCTTGGGGAGCACTGGGTGGACATTGCAGGGGAGGGGCGATCGTGGGTGCCCAGCCCGACCCTTCCTGCAGCCTCTCCCCTCGCCAACTCCTTGGCTTCCCGTGTGCGGAGGTGTCCGGCCTGAGCACGGAGCGTGTCCGGGAGCTGGCTGTGGCCTTGGCACAGAAGAATGTCAAGCTCTCAACAGAGCAGGTCAGTCTCAGTTGGGCTGAGGCAGGTGGGCACAGCTGGGGCTGAGGAATTCACAGGCAGCTCTGCAGTGCCCACCTTGCCACCACGGTCCCCTCTGTCCCTGCTGCCATCTCTCCCCGGCCAGTTCTTCCCAGAGTTCCTCTGGCCACCCAAGCTGACCACTGGGGTGCCTGTCCACGTCAGGGGCTGGCTCCCCAGGAGCAAGTCTGATATGACGCTGTGTGCTGGGCCCCCTCCTGGAGCGCCGTGGGCAGCCCTCCAGGCTCTGCCCCAAGGGTGAATCTTTTTCGGGGGAGTGGGTGAGATCTGGGGAAGGGGAGCGGAGCCAGGCACGGGAGCCCCCATCCCCCAGGGCAGCGCTGCAGGCGGCCAGAGATCCACTTCCACAGATTCTCGTGGCCAGGGCAGGGGTGTGTTGTGGTGGGCAGACTGGCCAGGCGACCCTGGCCCACCATGTGAGTGGCGGCTCGAAACGCTCTGTGCTGGACTCCCTGCCCCTGCAGCTGCGCTGTCTGGCTCACCGGCTCTCTGAGCCCCCCGAGGACCTGGACGCCCTCCCATTGGACCTGCTGCTATTCCTCAAGTAGGCCCTGCCCCCTGAACCCACCCCCCCGGCTTTTGCCGCCAGCCCTCAGCCCCCAACCCCCTGCCCCTTGCCTCGGATCCCAGGCCACAGCAGAGATGTGGAGGCCGGCCGGGCTGCCTCTCAGGGTGGGGACGGGTGTGATCAGTGCGGCCTGTCCCCAGCACCCTCTCTTCACAGCCCAGATGCGTTCTCGGGGCCCCAGGCCTGCACCCGTTTCTTCTCCCGCATCACGAAGGCCAATGTGGACCTGCTCCCGAGGGGGGCTCCCGAGCGACAGCGGCTGCTGCCTGCGGCTCTGGCCTGCTGGGTAGGGGCTGGGGCCAGCGCGGGGCGGAGAGGGCTCGGCAGTTCCAAAAGCGCTGAGGCCAGCCTCTCTGCAGGGTGTGCGGGGGTCTCTGCTGAGCGAGGCTGATGTGCGGGCTCTGGGAGGCCTGGCTTGCGACCTGCCTGGGCGCTTTGTGGCCGAGTCGGCCGAAGTGCTGCTACCCCGGCTGGTGAGCTGCCCGGGACCCCTGGACCAGGACCAGCAGGAGGCAGCCAGGGCGGCTCTGCAGGGCGGGGGACCCCCCTACGGGTAAGTGAAGGTGTCTGGAACCTCGAAGGCTCACCTGGCGGCGTGGTATCAGCAGCGTGAGGACACTTGCGGCCATGCCTCAAGGCCCAGGGTCAGTCACCCCCGCCACCACCCCTGCCAATGCCCCCAGCGTCCCCTCCACAGCCAGGGGGTACGGCCTGGCCTCTTCCCTCTCTGGGGCTGCACGTGGGGGGTCCCTGAGCTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGCACAGCCCCCCGTCGACATGGTCTGTCTCCACGATGGACGCTCTGCGGGGCCTGCTGCCCGTGCTGGGCCAGCCCATCATCCGCAGCATCCCGCAGGTGAGACCCCAATCCCCAGCCCGTGGGGATGCCCGGCCACCCGAGGCTCAGCCCAGGTCCTGCTCGTCCTCAGGGCATCGTGGCCGCGTGGCGGCAACGCTCCTCTCGGGACCCATCCTGGCGGCAGCCTGAACGGACCATCCTCCGGCCGCGGTTCCGGCGGGAAGTGGAGAGTGAGTGCCGTGCCCTGCGCAGTCTGGCACCAGGCTGGGCAGCACCCCTGGGGGTGGGCATCACTTTAGGGTCTCACCTGCCCCTCCCTGGCTCTGCAGCACATCCCATTATAATcacagagagtggacagaatccctgtttgccagtgggtaaactgaggcacagggagggtcacaaatggcccgaggtctcatctcacaggaggtgtgggaggaagaaggggtcaaacgaactccggccctgacccctgacccctgtgccctGCAGAGACAGCCTGTCCTTCAGGCAAGAAGGCCCGCGAGATAGACGAGAGCCTCATCTTCTACAAGAAGTGGGAGCTGGAAGCCTGCGTGGATGCGGCCCTGCTGGCCACCCAGATGGACCGCGTGAACGCCATCCCCTTCACCTACGAGCAGCTGGACGTCCTAAAGCATAAACTGGATGAGGTAGTTCATGACTCAAGTTCCCACCGGCCTGCTGTGTCCAAGCCATCCCCAGCCCCTCTGGGAGTGACATGGGCCCTCCTGGTCTCTTGGCCTGCAGCTCTACCCACAAGGTTACCCCGAGTCTGTGATCCAGCACCTGGGCTACCTCTTCCTCAAGATGAGCCCTGAGGACATTCGCAAGTGGAATGTGACGTCCCTGGAGACCCTGAAGGCTTTGCTTGAAGTCAACAAAGGGCACGAAATGAGTCCTCAGGTGACCGTCCGGCTCGGGGGTCATGTGGCATGAGATTGGGAAGGGCTGAGGGGCAGAGTGGGGGACAAAGCCTGAGGTTGGGCGGGCCTGGGGTCAGGGGCACGGCCTGAGGTTATGCTGGTGGTGGAGGGATACATCTCTCCTTGCCACAAGGCTCCTCGGCGGCCCCTCCCACAGGTGGCCACCCTGATCGACCGCTTTGTGAAGGGAAGGGGCCAGCTAGACAAAGACACCCTAGACACCCTGACCGCCTTCTACCCTGGGTACCTGTGCTCCCTCAGCCCCGAGGAGCTGAGCTCCGTGCCCCCCAGCAGCATCTGGTGAGTCCCCAGAACTCTGCCCGGCAAGGTGGGTCCGTGTGCTGGCGCTCACTGTCCACCCACCGTGTCCCCAGGGCGGTCAGGCCCCAGGACCTGGACACGTGTGACCCAAGGCAGCTGGACGTCCTCTATCCCAAGGCCCGCCTTGCTTTCCAGAACATGAACGGGTCCGAATACTTCGTGAAGATCCAGTCCTTCCTGGGTGAGCCAGGGAGTCCCTGGCCAGGGTGGGCAACACAACGGGGGAAGCACAGACTCCACTCGGGGGTGCCAGGCCTTTGCCTCGCCGGGCCGTCTGCTGCCAGGGTAACTGGGTGGTCACCCGCCCTCTGCCCCCCGGGGTGTGTATGGCCTTAGGGGCTGTGGGTTCTGACCCCAGCTCGGGGCGCCAGCCACCTCCAGGGTCTCCCACGCCTGGGGGTCAGGCGGCTAGGCAAACCCAGGCCCTGGAATCCCTAAGGAAAAAGGGAAGCCCTGTAAGGCAAGTGGGCTTCCTGCAGCCTGTGGTCAAGGGCCTGGGGGTGTGAGGTGAGGCCTCAGCTCGGGCCCCTCTCCCGGCGGGCAGGTGGGGCCCCCACGGAGGATTTGAAGGCGCTCAGTCAGCAGAATGTGAGCATGGACTTGGCCACGTTCATGAAGCTGCGGACGGATGCGGTGCTGGTATGGCGAGCgggaggaggggcgtgtggaggaggggcccgtggaggaggggcgagtgggaggaggggcgcgtggagggggggcgtgtgggggggtgcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggaggggggagcgtggggggcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggaggggggagcgtggggggcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggaggggggagtgtgggggggcgtggaggaggaggggcgcatgggggggtgtggaggggggcgcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggaggggggagcgtggggggcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggaggggggcgcgtggggggggcgcatgggggggcgtggaggggggtgcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggaggaggaggggcgcatgggggggtgtggaggggggcgcgtggagggggcacgtggaggggtcgcgtggaggaggggcgcgtggagggggccgtgtgggggggcgtggaggggggcgcgtggaggaggaggggcgcatgggggggtgtggaggggggcgcgtggagggggcgcgtggaggaggggcacatggaggggggggcaagtggagaagccctggtggaggggcgcatggaggaggggccaacggggggtgggagggCGTGTAAGGCGGGTCTGCAGTGGGGCGAGGCCTTAGGAAGGGCAGCATCTTCCCGTGTGGTGGGGCCTAGGGAAGGGCAGCCATTGAGCTGAGGTCAGCTGGCCGGAGACCTCCGAAGTCTGGAGAGGCTGCGGTGGGCATCTGTGGGTGGGGCAGTTTGGACACAGGAGAGCCTGGCAGCCCTCTGGCGGCGCTGAGGGAAGGAGACCCTCCTTGATGGCTGCCCGGGGTCTCTGGCAGCCGTTGACTGTGGCTGAGGTGCAGAAACTTCTGGGACCCCACGTGGAGGGCCTGAAGGCGGAGGAGCGGCACCGCCCGGTGCGGGACTGGATCCTACGGCAGCGGCAGGACGACCTGGACACGCTGGGGCTGGGGCTACAGGGCGGCATCCCCAACGGCTACCTGGTCCTAGACCTCAGCATGCAAGGTGGGCGGGGCGGCCAGGCCAGGGCTGGGGGCAGAGCTGGGGGCGTGGAGGTGGGCGCTCTGAGTCACCCCTCTCTCTGTAGAGGCCCTCTCGGGGACGCCCTGCCTCCTAGGACCTGGACCTGTTCTCACCGTCCTGGCACTGCTCCTAGCCTCCACCCTGGCCTGAGGGCCCCACTCCCTTGCTGGCCCCAGCCCTGCTGGGGATCCCCGCCTGGCCAGGAGCAGGCACGGGTGGTCCCCGTTCCACCCCAAGAGAACTCGCGCTCAGTAAACGGGAACATGCCCCCTGCAGACACGTCTTGTGGCCTCCGAGGACTTTCTGTGACCCCACCAGCGTGGCCCCTCTCCCTCTGGTCTTGCGCCCCCAGGCCAGGTGGGGGCCCTTGGAGGTCTTCCTGACCCTGCTGCCACTGTGCTGAGGGCCAGGCCAGCACTCAGGGTGGCCCCAGGAGCCGGTGGTGGGAGTCCTGTGCCCCTGTCCCCACAGGCTTGGCCCCGGCTAGGACATTCCCGGGCCCCCCTGCTCAGGCCCTGAGCACAGACACAGGCAGGACCACGACCGTGGACTTTATTCATGTCCAGCAGTGAAGTCTGTGgccccggccccggccccggccccggccccagccccaaccccaaccccaaccccggccccggccccggccccggccccagccccagccccagccccagccccagcccTCCGCAGGGCCCGGGCAGCGTCTTCCGTGGCCCGCCTGGGCCTGTGGTTGTGCGGGAGGCACCTTCTTAGGGCCTGGTCCTCAGTCCAGCTCCCAGGGCCTGGAGGCGGGGATGGGTGGGACGGTCTAGGAGGTGGGGCTTGGGTAGGTTGGCCTGGCCTAGAGCTGGCCCGTCAGCCCAAGTGGGCGTCCAGCTGAATCTAACACCTCTGTTTTTCCTGCACCTGACCCCTGTGAACCCAGCCACCCTGAGGCAACGCTGTCCACAGAAACCAGGATGCAAGTCCCCCAGTGCAGCAGGCACAGGAGGCTGCAAGGCAGGGCCATCGCCAGGGGCAGGTACCCCAGGGGGGCCCACAGGCTGCCTGTAGATGGAACAGGGAGGCCACCATCAGTCCCACCAGACGCTACCCCCATATCCACCCCCTAGAGCCAGACAGGCCTGGGCAGTCCCTCCCTCTGGCTGGGGAGGGTGGGGACAGCCAGCGAGGACACCCACCTGCGGCTGCTCTCCTGGGACCCAACAAAGGTCTCAAAGTTTCCCCTGCTCCCACTTTCTGCTGGTCAGTGGGTTTTAGGAGAGGCAGCTGTATCTCTAACTCAGTGGTCAATGAAGGGTGAAGCAGGGTTGGCCAGCCTCATCCCAGGAGGCAATGGACAAAGCTGGTGGACAGGCCTGTGGGAGTGGCCACGAGGCGGGGACGGGTCTGAGAGGGCCCTGGGCAGAGGGGGCCAAGCCGGAGGGGTGCGGGGGCCATACCTGAGGTGGAGGCCTGGGCATCGTTCGTGGGCAGGCCCGAGGTGTGGACCAGATGGAGCACTTGGTGGGTGGTGCTGGGGGGCCCCCTGGTGCCGTGGGCTGGGCCAGTGGGGCTGGTGGGGCTGGCGTCCAGGCCGAGCTGGCCCAGGGTGGAGCTGTTGAGGCTGCGCAGCCAGGCCCTGACGGTGGGGTGGCTGCGGGCCTTCTGAAGGTCTCCCACGTTGTGGCCCAGCAGCGCAGTCACGTTGCCAACATCCAGGCTCTGCGGAGAGGGGTGGGGCAGAGGGGCCGTGGGGCCAACTTCTGGGCCAGGGGAAGACCCACAGGGTAGGGCCAGACCCAGGATGGGGCAGATGGCGGGAGTGAGGCCCAGAAACGGCCTGGAGGAGGGAAGTGGGGGTATGCTGGCTGTGACCTGTGACCTAGGGGCTCCCCTGCCTGGGACAGCCCTGcacccccacccccacccccacccccacccccacGGGGTAGCCCAGCCCCACCTGCAGCTCGAGGGGGTTCAGGCTGGTGAAGGTGTCGATGTCCATGGAGATGTTGGCGTGGGCCAGGTGCCGCAGCTCCTCCACCGGGGCGCCGCCTGGGGGGACGGGTGAGGGGGGCTGGGCTCCACCAGGGGAGCCGCCTGGGGGGACGGGGTGAGGGGGGCTGGGCTCCACCATGGGAGCCGCCTGGGGGGATGGGGTGAGGGGGGCTGGGCTCCACCAGGGAAGCTGCCTGGGGGGACGGGGTGAGGGGGGTGGGGCTTCTGGGGGAGGGGTGCCCACCCATGGACAGGGCTCACCGAGGTAGGGGCGCATGAGGCGGTAGTAGGCAGCTAGGGTCCCGCTGCTGCCGAAGGTCTCATGGGCCTTGGTGTAGAGCACGTCCTTCCGGCTCTGGGGGCAGGAGGAGAGGTCCAGGGCCCCGGCCAGCCTGTGGGAGGCGGGAGGCTGAGGAGTTGGTCGCCAGCCCCCCACCCTTCCAACGCTGGGCATGGCCCTCCCTTCCCAAGCCACAGCTTTCCTCTCACCCTCTGTCCTGGGGGAACAGGGTCCCCCAAATTCACATCCAcccagaacctcagaatgtgaccttgttgggaaacagggtcattgcagatgggtaagatgaggtcagactggatcaggtgggccctaaaccaatgactggaggccttctaagaacagggaaagctgagggctgggtgcggtgctctcacctgtcatcccagcactctgggaggcctgggcaggtggatcacgaggtcaggagatcgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaagccccgtctctactaaaaatacagaaattagctgggcgtggtgggcgcctgtagtcccagctacttgggacgctgaggcaggagaattgcttgaatccaggagacaagagagaggttgcagtgagccgagatcacgccacttaactccagcctaggtggcagagtgagactccatctcaaaaataagcaaacaaacaaaaaagggaaaTCTGAggctgggcgtggaggctcacgcctgtaaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaagaggattgctctgaatccaggagtttgagaccagcctgggcaacatagtgagaccctgtctcttaaaaaaaaagaatacgaaatgtggacacagacgggggagagcgcagcgtgaggatggaggcagagctggggttgatgtatccataagcccaggggcgccaaaccttgtcagcaatgccagaagctggaggaggcaggaagggtcctccctgcagggttcagagggggcggggactgccagcaccctgatttcagacctctggcctccagaactgagagaatatatttatctttaaaattacccaatttggccaggtgcagtggctcacacctgttatcccagtgctttgggagaccgaggagggtgaatcgcttgaggtcaggagttccagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaactcatctttactaaaaatacaaaaattagccagacatggtggtgggtgcctataatcccagttactcgggaggctgaggtgggaggattgcttaagcccagggggcagaggtggcagtgagctgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacatagtgagactgcctcaaaaaataaataaaTAggccaggcgcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacaaggtcaggagattgagaccatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagccccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcatgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaatgaataaagtcacccagtttgtgtactttgctCAAAGCTAGAGTCCAGCCAGGGCAGCCCTGGGACTAATGCACCCCTGATGGCCTGGCTGAGCTGCACTCCCTGGCCTCAGTTTCCCCTCGCGGTCCTCCTTGGCTGAGGCGGGAGCTGCCTCCGAGGCAGTGGGGGGTTGGGGTTGGGTTTGGCTCACCGGAGCTCCTGGGGATGGATGGTCTGGATCTGGTGAGGACTCATCCAGCACAGGCGGGTGCCCCCGATGGCCAGCAGCAGGGCACCGGAGACTGTGCCATTGTGCTCCAGAAACTTCTGCAGCACAGCCTGGGGGCAGAGCCCGGGTCAGTGGGGCAGGCTGGGGCCTGGGGCCACCCACCTGCCCGCCCACCCAGGTGCCCTCACCTCTGTCTGGTTCTCCAGGGCCACGTCGGAGGCCAGCAGAGCCATGACCGTGTCCTGGGAGGTGATGCTCCACTGGCCGATCTCGGTGCGGGAGTAGAGGTAGACCAGCGAGGTGATGAGCCGCAGCTGATCCTCCGGGAGGCCTTGTGGGTAGATCTGAGCAGGTGGGCAGGGCTAGGCAGGGTCAGCAGAGGTGCCGCGCCCACCGGCCTCCCTGTCCCCACAGCCCAGCCGTGCACCTGTGCGAGCTTGGCCTTGACCACATGCTGGCACTCAGTGGGCAGCAGGTGCTGCAACAGGGTGTCCAGGTTGGTTCTGAGGATGCAGCCATCCAGGCAGGACTCAAGCTCTGCACAGTCGTAGTGCACCAGGAAGAGGTCGTCCCGCAGCGTGGCGGCCGTGATGTTGCCTCAGACACAGGGTCCCCCTGGGGGGTGTGTGGGGTCCAGGCTGGTAACCGGGGCCTGGGCCAACCACCACTGCTGGCTCTGGGCGCCttttttttttttttttttttttttgtgagagagtcttgctctgttgcctagcagcagggtgccaaaggctggagagcagtggcattgatctcagctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggtatgcgccaccatgccagctaatttttgtatttctagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgtcggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgaccttaaatgaatcatcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcctgagccactgtgcccagccCCCtttttttttttttttttttttaaggcagagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggaatgcagtggcacaatcttggctcattgcaacctccacctcccaggttcaagcgattctcactcctcagcctcccgagtagctggcattacaggcatgaggcaccacgcccggctaatttttgtgttttcagtagagatggggtttccccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactatggacctcaagtgatgtgcctgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccaccgtgcccggccCAGGCCCCCTCTTTGACCCCTTCCCCTCCACTTCTGACCTTGGTCAGACCTTGGCTTTCCCTGAGTTCTAACCAAGAACTTGTCCAAACTACTTCTCTGAAGTCAGCCAGGCCCGAGGGAAAAGCTGGACCGGTGAGGTGCAGGGTCGCAGGCCTCAGTGGCCATCCTGACCTGTGCTGAGCCTGGGCCTGGAGGACACTGGTTTGGTCTTGGACTCCAGGAAGCTGGTGACGAAGCACCTGGCCTCGCGCTGGCCGAGCCTTCCCACCTGGCACGAAGCCACCACGCTGCGGAAGAAGCCCAGGCCCACGGCCTGGCGGGGCAGGTGTGGGCTGAGGTTGGTGGCCCAGGTCCCCGTGCCACGGCCCGCTTGTGCCCACCCCGGGGCCCCCTCCTACCTCCTGCACCTGCGCCCACAGGTGAGGGCTGATGTATGTGGCCAGGGGCCCCAGGGCCTGTAGCCCCTCCAGTGTCCAGGAGCCAGGGGGCCTTGTGCACAGAATGGGGCGCAGTGTTGGGTCCAGGGCAGGCCCCCCGCCCTGGGAGCCCCTGCCCCTCTGTGGACACCCAGCAGGCCGGAGGAGCACCCAGTAGGTGCTTGACCACCCAGCCCCCGACTGGCACCCACGAGAGGGATGCCCCCACCACAGCCAGCGGGACAGCACCCCAACCCTCTGCCCCCTCGGCCGCAGGACCCAGTGAGGCTGAGGCCAGAGGTCAGATGTCAGTGGGCTGCGGACATCGGTGACCTCTTGGGCCGACCCCGGGCTGCCTCCCGTCTCGTCCCCGCCTCCTTGCCCAGCCCTGTGACCCCACCCACCCGAGCGAGGTCTTCCCACCGGCCAGCAGTGAGTTAAGGGCAATGCGCTGGGCAGCGGTCAGCCGGGGGCAGCGCCGCAGGTTCTCCAGCATGTGGGGGTCTGCGGCACCGATGCTGGACGCGTCCATGTCACACACCAGGGCCCCGAGCAGTTGCTGGTCGGAGGCGCTGAGTCGCAGGCGGGCCACCCCCTGCAGGGCCAGCAGGTCGGCGCCCAGCGGGAGGCTGCCTCCAATGCACCGGGCCCATCCTGCCCAGGCGCCCACCAGACAGGCCACAGCCACCCCCCACACGCTCCGGCCCACCCCACCCAGCGCCCACCAGGCAGGCCACAGCCGCACGCCACAGGGCGACCCTCTGGTCGGGTAGATGGCTCAGCAGCTCCACGTCCCCCTGGGCGGCACGGCGGATGAAGGCCCGGCAGTCGGCTTCCCGCACCTGGCTCAGGCTACAGGTGAGTGTGAGGCTGTCAGGCCGACTGGGGGTGGGGCCGGACCTCCCAGCAGCCCTGAGATGCCCCTGGGGCTTTGAGGGCCCCCAGGACTCCTGTGGCCGGGTGGCCGGGCAGGGAGGGGCACTCACTTGTAGAAGAGCAGCAGGTTGGGTGGGTGGAGCGTGAAGTCGTCCTGGAGGCCGCACCGTGACGCCAGGTTGGCCAAGCAGCTGAGCTGGGCAGAACGGCGCTCCCTCGTGACTCTGGACTCGCCGTGGCAGCCCGTGGGCGCCCTTCCCCTCTGCGGAGGCCTCAGGCCCCAGTCCCCACCCACTTCTCGGCCCCGTTTCCCACATGTCGGGTCATCCCCACGGCCACCCGTGCCTGCCCCTCTGCCTGGAGGGGAACCCCGCACAGCAGAACAGGCCTCCAAACGGCCGCCCCCAGCCCCAAAGCCGCCTCCTCACTGACGGGGTGTTAAAGCACACGTCCGGATGCTGGGCGGGTGTAGACGATTGCCTGTCTCCACCAAGGAGGCCCCACGACGCTGGGGTTGGGGGTCTCCTCCAGCACAGCCCCTTGGCAGCTTCCCAAGTGGACTCTGGGTGGTGCCCCTCGGCTCCACCTGACAGCCTCCTCCTGGCATCGGGGCTCTGCCAGGCCCGGCCTCCACCCCCCACCCCATGCTCCCTGAGGCTCTGCTTGCCCCTCTCAGCCTATGCAGCACGCTGCCCAGCCTCAGCGCCCCCTGCCTAGGCTTGTCTAGCCTGGCCTTTGGGGTCATTTCAAGGGTTTTTAGCCCTTTGCTCAGAGGGCCCTTTGCCTGATTTTATGTCAAGCAAGCCCTTGGGACGTACGGTGCATAAGGCGAGGGGCTCCGAGGCAGACAAGGACAGCCCCAGAGTTTTGTGCGGCCCTCACCAGGGTCTCATCCCTGAGGAGGAGCCCACCCAGGGTGGGGGCTCGGGGACCCTCCTGCAGCCTGAAAGGAGCCCCGGGGAATGGAGCAGGGGCTGCCAGCCTCCTGCAGCGCAAGGTCCTCCTGGCTGAGAGGGAGGGGAAGAAAAACTCTTACCCACAAACACCCAGAACGCCTGTGAGCTGGAACAGAATGTTCAGCCTGTTTGATTATCAAAAGAAAGGCCAAAAGCAggccaggtgtggtggcccatgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggagggctgatcactggagctcaggagttcgagaccagcctggccaacatagtgagacccctgtttctaaaaagaatcacaaagttaggccggacgccgtggctcatgcctgtaatcccagcagtttgggaggccgaggcgggcggatcacctgaggccagtctgagaccagcctgcccaatatggtgaaacctcgtctctagtaaaaatacaaaaatattagctgggcgtggtggcggccgcctgtagtctcagctacttggaaagctgaggcaggagaaccacttgaacccggaagacagaggttgcagtgagctgagatcgtgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagagagactccatctcaaaaaacaaaaacaaaaacaactgtcccagctactggggaggctgaggtgggaggatggcttgaatctgggagttgaggttgcaatgagctgagatggtgccactgctctccagtctggacaatagagtgcgatcttatctcaaaaaataaGTACCATAATAAAATTTTATATGTTTTAAAGAAGAGAAAggccaggtgcggtggctcatggctgtaatcccagtactttgtgaggccgagacgggcgggtcacttgaggccaggagtttgagaccagcctgggcaacatggtgaaacctcgtctgtattaaaaattcaaaaattagctgggcgtggtatcacgcgcctgcaatcccagctatctgggaggaggctgaggcaggagaattgtttgaatccgggaggcagaggttgcagtgagccgagatcgtgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagtgagactctgtctcaaaaataaataaaTAggctgggcatggtggctcaagcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggcgaatcacgaggtcagaagatcgagaccatcctggctaacgtcgtgaaaccttgtctctactaaaaatagaaaaaattagccgagcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagttccagctactcaggaagctgaggcaggagaatggcatgaacctgggaggcagagtttgcagtaagccgagatcgcagcactgaactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactttgtctcaaagaaaaaaaaaaataaataaataaataaataaaagagaaaaaaagaCtgtggcaataagataccaaattataaatgagacctacggccgtgccaggcagaggGGAGGTGGTGCCTGCTGGCTGTCCCTCTGTCCCTCCTGTGGCctccttgtctgagttgaaagcattccctattgctgagtccatgttttacacagggctttattcctttaaccggttacaaacgaaagagtctctgaatccacctatgacttataagcccccaatttgagatatcctgccttttcagggagaacgggctgatatctgcctaccccgtgttccctgcctctttgcctgtaactcctgcttcctggatgcctagaaaaccagcctgcaacccgccggcctcagggcgctcacacctcttgagtctgtttcctcgggccgggatcactcataccgctcagaTAACTCTAAACTATGTCACTGTGTGGTTTTCCCGTGAAGGGGTGGAGGTCTTTCTGCCTTTCCCTTTTCCTGGACGGCCCCGCACAGGCCAGGATCCTGCAGCCCGTGCAGGGAGAAGCCTGTGGGCTGTAAAATCCGCTCTGGGGGCCCCGAGTATGCACCCCAAGTTGGGCACCATTCCCCGCGGAGGTGGGTGGGGAGGGGAGGGTGAACCCTCGTCCTCACTGGGGACACAGTGGGGAGCATCTGCAGGCAAATTGGCTACAACGTCCTGGAATTAGATAAGCCTGGGCTGCACCCGAAAGTCACCCTGCCTCCTGGTGGACCTCCCGTCCTGGGGGGCCGCAGAGACACACTCCAGGTGGCTCTGAAGTTGGTGGGTTGGCTTCCACACAGCCCTCCTGCTCTAGGGGGCCACACACCCTGTCCCGACCGTGGTCACACTGGGTTGTGCCCCAGCTCTCGCTTAGCCGTCCTTCGCCTCTCACACCTGAGCCCATGTGCCCTTCCCTATCCGGGCCCATCCCTCAGAGCCTGGCCTCGGTCACCCGCCCACCCACTCACACTCCTTCCCGCTCACCTGCCAGGCCTGGAGGGGGACCTGCAGCAAGGCCAGCCTCTGGATTAGGGCTGAGAGCTGGTCCCGGGGCAGCTGGCTGGCCGGCTGGCACCAGAAGCCTTGCAGCAGGGAGCAGTTGGCACTGGGCAGAGAGGAGGAGACAGGGGCAGGGAGGGTCCAGGAGGGGTGGAAGCAGCTGAGGGGGGCTGCCTAGCAGAAGGGCATGGGCCGCACGCAGCCTGCAGGACCAAGGTCTGACTCCACCGCTCCCCAGCACTGAAGGAGGGAGAGTGGGAGGTGGTGCCCCGGACACAGGCAAGGTCCTGCttcactcactcactcattcactcattgactcattcattcattcactcattcattcactcactcactcattcactcactcactcattcactcactcattcactcattcattcacacactcatttttactcattcactcattttcactcactcattcactcattcattcactcattcactcatttttactcattttcactcattcactcattttcactcattcactcactctttactcattttactcattcattcactcactcattttcacttattcattcatttacccactcactcattcactcattttcactcactcgttcactcatttttcactcattcattcactcattcattcggtcactcattcactcattcactcactcactcattcattcattctgtctttcattcattcTCTCCAGAACACCCTGTGGGGCCAGGCTCTGGGCTGCACACAGAGCCTTATGTGTGGCCCCTGCCTAGACCCTGGGACAGCACTTCCTCCTGAGGCTGGGTCCCAGCCGGCCGGGAGCTCAGGTGGCTCCCTGAACATCCCCGCTGGCTGCTGAGGCACCTGAGGAGGAGACACCCCCACCCAGGGCTTTGGCACCTGCTGGGCAGCCCCGGGGAAGCCGTCTCCCCAGCCTTCCTTGTGGTGTGAGTCTAATCCAGTCCAACACAGAGCGGGCCTTGTGCCACTCAGGACCCCAGCCCTGCCTCACAGACGCCCTGGTTAGTCAACTGACCAGCCTGTCACTGTCACTAACTCTGAAGGATGGGGAGGAGGGCCGAGCCCAGCATGAGGTTCCAGGCAGTGCGGGGAACCAGAGTGTCCTCTGGGGTGGGCAGAGGCGGCAGGGCCTGACGGTTGAGGCCTCGGCAGTGGCTGAAGGACCCACACCCGGCTATGTAGATCCAAAGCTGGACACTGGACGCTGAGTCATCTCAGGGCCCCCCAAGGTGGAGCAAGAGATGACAGCCTCAGCGTGCAGACTGCTGGCGGCCAGCCCCAGACCCCTCCCCATCCCCTCGTCTGACCCCTCCCCTGGCCTGACCAAGAAGCAGACCCCTACTGCAGGAGGGCTGCACTCACCTGGCCCACAGGTTGGCCCCGCTGGCATCCAGCCCTCCTGGGGAAAGAACCTTGGCCTGGGGCCCAGAGCAGTGGGCAGCAAGGGACAGCAGGAGGGTGAGGCCTGAGCTCTGCAGGGCACCTGGAATAAGGTGGGCTGTGAGGGTCCCGGCGGGAGCAGGGGCCGGGGCATCCGGGTCCCAGGGTGGACCTGTGACCCCCACCATGGGGGTCTGCTTGAGGCCAGAGGACATGGAGGAACTTCTGGAGCCCCACAGCACTGGCCACCTGTGCACAGCCTGGGCCCAAGCGCAGGACGTGTCTGGTGGAGCATGCACAGGCGTGATGCTGTGGGTGCATGCAGGCACGCACATGTAGGTGACAGTGTGCACGTGTAAGTGACAGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGACAGTATGCACAGGTATACAGCACAGGCATGAGGCTGTGGATGCGTGCGGGCACGCATGTGTAGGTGACAGTGTGCACATGTAGGTGACAGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGACAGTGTGCACGGGTATACAGCACAGGCATGAGACTGTGGATGCGTGCAGGCACGCATGTGTAGGTGACAGTGTGCACGTGTAGGTGACAGTGTGCACAGGTAGGTGACAGCTGTGTGCACGTGTAGGTGATGGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTTACAGTGTGCATGGGTAGGTGACAGCTGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGACAGCTGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGACGGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGACGGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGACAGCTGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGAAAGCTGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGAAAGCTGTGTGCACAGGGAGGTGACAGTTGTGTGCACAGGGAGGTGACAGCTGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGACAGTTATGTGCACGGGGAGGTGACAGCTGTGTGCATGGGGAGGTGACGGTGTGCAGAGGTAGGTGACAGCTGTGTGCACGGGGAGGTGACAGCTGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGAAAGCTGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGAAAGCTGTGTGCATGGGTAGGTGACAGTGTGCACGGGTAGGTGACAGTTGTGTGCATGACTCTGGCAGCGTGTGCGCATGTCCACCTGTGTTGCACATGTGTGAGATGGCAGGTGCATGTGTGTGAGCTCCTTCTACCTCCCTCCAGACGCCCCATGGCTCTGTGTTCTCACAGTGGAGCCCTGAGACCCCTAAGGCAGCAGAGCTGTGGGGGCAGAAGCCACCTTCAAGGGCCCCGGCTGCTCAGCTCTGCAGTGGGGGTCACGGCAGGGCCTCCCAGCAGGAACTGGGAGCCCAGCCCATGTTCCTGCTTTGGAAACCCAGCCCAGGAAGGGGGTTTGGGTGCAGGGGAGCCCCCTTATCTTGCTGGCCCTGGGGAGACCACGTGGTGAAGTCTCTTCTCCGGCAGGCGTCAAGCAGGGGTTGCCACAGCCCACACAGAAATCTGACCACGGCCTCCTGGGCTGCTGGGGCCCGGCCCACCCCTCTCAGGGAGGGTGAGGCATTGGGCAACCCTGGCCTCAGAGCCCAGCCCTGCCTGTGGCCGGACTGCCCGAGAGAACGCTGTCTCCACTCACCCCCACACCGTTTCCCCAGAAGCCATGTCCAGCTGCCTGGGCCAGGAGTGGCCCCCTCTAGCCAAACTTGCCTGCCCTGCCTCACCCTCCCAGGACCCCCATGCCTGCTGGGGAGGGCTGGGCTCACAGTGCCCTGGCAGCCCGACCCCCGTCCTGCTGCTGCTGGGCAGGGCCCACCTTCTCCTTCCTTGGCTTGGGACAGACCCTCGCTCAGGAGAATGGGGTGGCCAGGGCCCTGGGCACTCCCATGTCTACGGGATGGCTTTGCCATGAGGGCCTGGCACTCTGGAGGCCCCCTTTCTGCATGGAGGTCTCGTCTCACCCACTCTGGGGCCCACGTCTGTGCGGCGGCGTGCACTGGTCATCCTGGCTGAGACGTCCCAGGGCAGGAAGGTGCTGGGGCCAAGGGCAGTGGGTCCAGGACTAGCTGGAGAGGCGTGACAGAGGCGAGACACAGGTGAGACACACAGGTTGGCCCCGCACTGCCTCCCACCCCCTGGGGTGTGGAGAGGGAGGGTGCAGTCTAGGTTCACCCAGGGCAGCGGGGCCAGAGCTGCGCCTCTCCCACCTTCGAGGGGAAAGGATCCCATAAACAGTAAAAGGCAGGAGCAGGGAGCGGGAGCCGGGTGAAACCCTGGGGCCTTTCTTATTGCAGGTCGGGGCCTAGGGGACCCATGGGCTGCTGGGTCTCCAATGAACAGATTTCCAACAAACAGCGAGTCCCCCAGGCAGCCTCGTGCAGCCCTGGCTTCATCCCCACACCCGGCAGCCCTGGCAGCTCCCTTTCCCTCTTTGAGCCCCAGCTGTTGGGCTCTTTCGCTGACATCCAGCCCCCAGTGGCAGCTGGGGTAGCCTCAACCATGCTGGAAATGGAAGCTGCAAGGCCAGGGACCCTAGAGGAGTCCGGTACTGCTGTGGGTCACTGCCTCCTCCTGGAGCCAGCCTGATGGCTTTTGGGCACCTCTGGGCCTCCTGACTGTGGCCCAGGAGGGAGACAGGGAGGCTGCCCCATGCAGAGGCAAATGCAGAGGTTCAGGCCCAGCCACAGGTCCGGGACCGGCCCTGCGGGTGGGCTGGTGGTGGCTCCCGCCAGCGTTTCTCACCTGAGCAGAAACCCTGGGTGTGGTGGAGGGAGGTGCTGCCCAGGCTGTGGGGTGGCTGCTCCTGGCAGGGAGTTGTGGACCAGGTGATCCAGACGCAATCCCAGCCCGCCAAGTGCGTCAGCCGCTACCACTGAGCGCCCGGGTGCAGAGGCGGTGCAGGGCGGGGATGCCGGGGTCCCCGCTCACCTCCATGCCTGGCCTGGCAGGCGGCATGAGACTGCCTCGCCCCGCCCAGTCCCACTCCCACGGTGACGCCCGCCAGGCAGTCCTGTGGGGGAGGCCCGGGCTGTGCCAGGCGATGCACCGCGTCAGCCCCTGGGGACCTCAGGCACAATGGGCACCTACTCCCTTCCCCTAGAGCAAAGGCTGAGCTCACGGCTGGCAGCTGCCCAGCTCACACCCCTCCCCACCCACTGGGGCCCTGCTCTGCAGCGTCTGTGCCCCAGGGGTCATGTCGTGCGCCTGCACCTGAGTCTGCCGTGTTTGCTGGTGCCTGCGTGTGCACAGGTGCCTCTCGGGCCTCCTGGTCTGTGTGCCCGGGAGCACGGACACAGATCCACCATGTGTGCCTCTGCGGGGACATCAGGCAGACGAGTACCCAATGCGGGGGCCAGGAATGGTGACGGCTGCGGCCATTCCGTGGGTGCCGCAGCTCAGAGGTGGGCAGGCAAGAGCACCCAAGTATGCACTGTCGGGCTCCACCAGGCAGGCCAGGGCAGGAGAAGACACAGGAGGGACTTCCCAGCCCACCTGCCAGGCTTCTCCCCTCACTGGGACAGGGTGCTGGGTGACCCAGGCTGAGCCCTGGCCTGGCCCACCTACCCCAGCTCTCATCTTGGGAGAGACTCAGCCCCTGCTTGGCAGGACCTGCAGCTCAGGTTCAGCTGTGGAACCACCACCCCCTGCACCACAGCTATGCTATGGGTGCCCAACAAGCCAGCTCCATGGCCAAGCTGAGACTTGACCCCCGATCTGGGTCTTCTGGAGGCTGACGGCAGGGGAACTGGTAGGTGACTGCTCCCCAGGCCTGCACAAGCCCACAGGAACCCAGGTGCCCCTTTGAGAGCTCTAGGCTGACAACGAGGCACGGGCACCATGAGGGACGGCGCTCAGGCCTGGCTTGTTGATGAGGGTCCGGCTCAGGTCAGGCCTTGAAGGCCCCTTGGCCGGCTGTCAGCTGGGCCAGCCCAGCTGGACACAGCGGCTCCAACAGCTGCTGTTGGGGCAGTGAGGTCGGCAGCCCCCAGTCTAGAGGGGTGGGGCCCCGTGGGGCAGGGTGGGGAGACTGTCCCAGCCAGAGAGGGGAGGCGTGCCTGGCCCTGACTTGGGCTGATTCAGACAAGGACCAGGAGGAGGCCTGGAGATAAGCCAGCCCTGGGGGAGGGGAGGCCGGGGCCAGGTGCCCGAGGGTGGACACGTCCCGGGGCTGGCCAGGGAGGAGCCTCGAGAGTGATGGGCGTGCTGGCCGGGAGGGCTTTGCTGCCGCACTCTGTTGGGGTGGCCGACTGGTGCTACTTGAGGGTTATGCGGTCCCTTCGGatctgcaccagccccttcctttacagatgaggaaactgagtcatgggagcagcagcagtgagtccagggcctgtggcctcacctcagggactctggggctggaacccacgtctcggctgaGGGCACGGTGGCAGCTGCCTCCAGTCGGGCCCCGGTGGGGACTCCGGGTCTGGAACCCGCGTCTCGGCTGAGGACACGGTGGCAGCTGCCTCCGGTCTGGGCCCCGGTGGGGACTCCGGGTCTGGAACCCGCATCTCGGCTGAGGGCACGGTGGCAGCTGCCTCTGGTCCAGGCCCTGCTGCTGTCACCGCTGGGGTCGTAACCAGGGTTTCAGGGCTGGCCCCGGAGCTGGACAGTGGCAGGCAGGGGCCAGGCGGACCTGAGACCAAGTGCTGGCCCATGAGATGCCCCTTCCACAGAGCTCTGAGACTTGGGCTCTACGAAGATCCCTGGCTGGACCAGCTGGGTATTCCCATGGCTCTGGTTGTGGGGGCTGGGGGTTGTCCGGGGCCGGCCCAGGGTCTGTGCCCAGGCCAAAGCTGCACGGTGCTTGCTGTCTGCAGGAGAGGCCGATAGGAGCCTGGACCACTGCGTCTGTCCTGGGTCCTGCTGGGGCCTCAGGGCAGGGAAGAGAGCTAGGAAAGGTCTGGGTGGCCAGACCTGTCCCTTGGAAGCCCCACTTCGGACACGTTCACGGTCATCCTTGGAGCCAGTCACTGAACATTTATTTGGAGTCCCTGGAGCCCTGCTGTAGCCAGGAGCCCAGGTTGTGGCATGGGGGACAGAGGAGGTGGGACCTGGCAGACCCACAGCTCCCAAGCTGGGGTCCCGGAGGCAGAGTGACAATGCATGGCTGTGTGGGAGCCAGGCAGGCGGTGACGTGGCAGAGCTGCCAGCAGGGGCCCAAGAGACTGCAGCAGGTTGGTGCTCACAGTGGATCTGAGGGATGGGCGTGCGTGGCAGGGCCTTGGCCATGGCCCCTGACCAACCCCTGTGCACCAAACACCACACTGAGCTCAGAATCCGGGCAGAGAGGGAACCACTGGTACAGTGAGGCCAAGGCACACGCAGCCGGGCCTGCAGACTCGAGCCCAGCAGGGACCATTAGGTCTCGGGAGGAGGCAGCTGAGGGCGACAGGATCTGCACAGAGCAGTGAGGGGCAGAGGACGCAGGGACCAGATGGGTCTCCCAGGCCAGGTGAGCCCAGAACGGCCCTTCCCAGCCCCTCTAGAGGGTAGGTTGGGGGCAGTAGCTCACCAGGCCCAGGAGCAGCCCATCCTGGAGGCAAAGCCTATCCCAAAACCTGGCCCTGCCTCTTCCTGAGGTGACCTTGAGTCCGTAAAACTGACGCCCCTGGGGTGACGCTTGAGAGCCGGAAGCTGTTCCAGGAGGAGGGAGGGGCCTCGGTTTCTCCCGGGGCATGTGGGCAGGAAGGCCCTCGGGATCCCGCATCAGTCCCACGGCCGCGGTGCGGTCGTCACCTGTGATCACGGCTGCCTGGCGCCCCCTGCCGGCCCCACCTCAGCCCTTCCTCGCAGGCCTGGCCGGGGCAACCCAGTGGGCCTGATGCTGCCTGGCACCTCGAGGCCCCAGAGCCAGTGAGCAGACGCTCGCTCGCCCATCTCCCTAGAGTCCCGCTGTGCAGCTGACACCCCCTGCCCCAGCCCCACGGCTCTCAGCTGTCCGGTTCCAGCGTCCACTCCGACAGCCACTGCAGGCAGGGGCCCCGCTGTGCCTCAGTCTCAGGGGGCTTGGTTGGGGGTGGAGGAGGCCGGCCGGGCCCAGGCAGGAGTGCGGAGGGGCTGCCTGGCCTGGGGCCCCTATCCTCGGGGTCAGGGTCGGGGGTGGCCCGTAAGGCCTGCACGAGCTGGTCCAGCGACTGCAGCAGTGTGTGGGGGCTCCAGCAGGCATCCAGGGAGGGCAGGAAGGGGTCAGGCGTGCAGACCTCCACACACTCGGTGTCCGTGGGGATGCGCAGGTAGAAAGCGTGCAGCATCATTCTGAACGGCCGGTCCTCCCGGCCCGAGACTTCTCCGTAGGTCAGGTCGCCCACCACGGGGTGGCCCAGGGCACTGCAGTGCACGCGCAGCTGGTGTGTCCGGCCTGCGGGATGAGGGCGGTGCCGGATCAAGCTGGGAGCGGGGCCGATCCACACCTATCTCCCTGACCAGGACCCACCTCCCGTCATGACCCCGCTGCAGTCTTGAAGCAGCCTCTTGGGGTGGAACTCTCCCTGTCCCCTGCCATGAGTGAGGATGACAGTATTTAGGACAGAAGATTGTGTTCAGGTCACCACTGGTGAGGACAGGGCCAGGGTGGTGCTCGGTCCTGGAGAATCTAGGCCAGCCAGACCCCCAAGGAATCAGTCAGGAGCCAGCAGGGACCCTGTGTCAGGTGAGAagctgagaggctgcagggcgtggagttaagaacgcaggagtgcttgttgccagctctgccctgatgctcagggtggcccaacataagcttcgtggccctgtgcctcagtttcccttctgtCACCACCAGGACACCGCCCACCCCAGACACACCCGTGAGCGGCTTCAGCAGCACTTTGGAGACAGGATCGCCTGCGTACAGCCCGTGTTCCAGAACCACGAGATCTGTGAGGCTTGGCTTTGGGTTCTCACAACCTGGGGCGCAGAAGGCAGGTGTGAGGTTAGTGGGACTGACCCGGGGCCCAGGCCCACCCCAACGCACGATGCCCGCCCGGTGGGTCCCTGCCTGCCCAGGCCCACCCCAACCCACGATGCCCGCCCGGTGGGTCCCTGCCTGCCACACCCTGCGAGCCCTCGATGCACATGGTGTGGGCCCGGCCCTCCGTGCTGTTCCTGCCAATGGCATGGCTGATGGTTACCCGGCTCTCCTGGATGTGCCCCCGCAGCTGCAGGAGAGGGAGAATCGCACGCAGTTCACGGGGCAGCCCAGTGCTGCCGGGGAGCCCACCTAACACCAAGCAACCACGTAGAGCGTGGTGGGAGGCTCTGAGCCAGGGCTGCCCAAGTGGGGTGGGAATCCTGAGTCCCCACGCCCCACCCCAGGACTGACCAGGTCTTACCAATGCCAGGTAAGCCTTGGTCACGCGCCGCTCCTTGAAGCACCTGTACGCGCTGCCGGCGGCTGCCTTGTTTAGGGCCACGCACAGCGCCCCGCTGGTGGAGAAATCCAGCTGGTGGCAGAACCTGGAGTGGGACAGAGTCCAGAGTCTGAGCCACTTTCCTCCACAGACGCCACCGTGGGGCTCCGGCCGCCCCCCCTACCTGAACCCGTAGCAGGTGTCAGGGTCGGCCAGCTCGGGAAAGCGGTACCGCAGCTGCTTCTGCAGGGTCAGAGTCTCCCGCCACGCCTTGCTGTCAATGCGAACGTCCCAGTGCTTGTTGACCACCAGGAAGTCGCGGCTCCGGTACACGATGGACAGGTTCTCCACGCTGCCTGGCTCCATGGCCGGCCTGCCGAGCCACGCGTGGGTGCGTGTGCTGTGAGCACGTGGTGCGCCCCCAGCCCAGCATACAGAGGTACCCGCACCGCCCCACCCGGGCTCCGGTGCGAAGCCACCGAGCCGGGTCCGCAGCCCTACTGTGCACCTGCATCCTCAGTCCCCGAGATCAGTCCCCAGGGCGTCAGCTGGGGAGTCAAGGAGTCAGCCTGCTCCGGGCTGACCTGAAGGGCCCTGCCTGACCTAAGCCTGGAGAAAGAGCCCGTTCCAAACCTGCCCCACAGATCCTCCCCACAGACCCTCCCCTCCAGGGGATGCACGTGAATGCCTCTGCCCGACGGTGGGGGCGGGGAGGGGCTGCAGCACTACCAGGCCCGGCAGCCAGGTCTGCCCGCAGCGCGGGTTAGGGCTGGGGCCTCCTCGCTCCCCGCAGTCCGCGCAGACCCGCGCCCCGCACAGGCCCGGTGGGCAGGCCGACCCTGGCTCCGAGCCCCTCCCGCGCCCACGCCCACGCCAAGACCAACCTGCTGCCGGGCCGTGCAGTCCAGGCCCCCGATGCCGTGCCCGGCGCCGGCTCCAGCCGCGCGCCCGCGCGCTGGCGACCCAGAGACCCTGGAAGCTCCGCTCCGGACGCCTGGCAGCGCTTCCGCCCTGCACCGCTGCGCGCGCAGccccgcccccccccccggcccgcccccggcccgcccccgccGCGGAAGGGCGGCTGCGGCGGCCAATGGCGAGCTCCCCAGGACAGGACGCGGGGGCTGCGGAGCAGGAACTCGCCCCGCCCACCCCTCGCGCAGCCCCGCCTCCGCCACGCCAACCAATGGCGCGCGCCGCCGGGCACGCCGGCTGCTGATTGGCGGCGCCCGGCACGCTCGGGGCGGGCAGTGCGCGACGGCGGCGGCGGCGCGGGAGGTTCGGAGCGGGAGCTCGGGCTCGCGGACGGTATGGAGGACTACGAGCAGGAGCTGTGCGGCGTCGAGGATGATTTCCACAACCAGTTCGCGGCCGAGCTGGAGGTGCTGGCAGAGCTGGAAGGTGGGGCGCGGCCCCCGGCCGTTGGGGAGGAGCTGCGAAAGCCGGGACAGTGGCGACCTCGGGGAGGGCGTGCCGGGGGCCGAAGGGGCCTCCACGTCGCCGCTGGCGGGATCTGCTGTCTCGGGGCGGCCGCTGACAATCTCCTCTCCCAGCAGGGGCGTCGACTCCGTCGCCCTCCGGGGTCCCCCTGTTCACCGCGGGCCGACCCCCGCGGACGTTCGAGGAGGCCCTTGCCAGAGGGGACGCGGCCTCCAGTCCCGCCCCAGCCGCATCTGTGGGCAGCAGCCAGGGCGGCGCCAGGAAGAGGCAGGTGGACGCCGACCTGCAGCCGGCCGGGTCCCTGCCCCACGGTAGGTTGGCGGCATTGCCCCAGGGCCTCCGGAGTGGGCGCGAGGCTGAGGAGGCCTCTGGTTCCCTGCATGTGTCTCCCCCAGCCCCCAGGATCAAACGGCCTAGGCTGCAGGTGGTCAAGAGGCTGAACTTCAGATCGGAGGAGATGGAGGAGCCGCCCCCTCCCGACTCCTCGCCGACGGACATCACCCCGCCGCCGAGCCCTGAGGACCTCGCAGAGCTTTGGGGCCACGGGTGTGTGGCTTGGACATGGGCGTCCCATCCCATCTGTCCAGTGGGACTCAGATGGAGCCCATCCCGTGCCCTGGATGAGGCCTGGGGGGTGGGGAGGGTTCCATGGCTGAGAGCAGTCTCGGACACCCATATCCAAGGGTGACCCCACGCTTGAGTTTCTGCCACTGAGCCCCGGTCTCTCTCCAGAGTCTCAGAAGCTGCTGCCGACGTGGGTCTCACACGGGCCTCACCAGCTGCCCGCAATCCCGTCCTGAGGCGGCCCCCCATCTTGGAGGACTACGTCCACGTGACATCCACGGAGGGCGTCCGGGCTTATCTGGTGCTGCGTGCTGACCCCATGGCCCCGGGGGTGCAGGTGCGTGGCTGTGGCCTTCCTGCACGGTGGGTGGGCCAGTGCTGCTCAGGAAAGGGTCCTTGGAGCCCCTCACCCCTGCCATTTGCTTAAAGCGGGTCCTGTGCAGAGCCCCAGGGGTGCAGAGGGGGAGGCTGCGTCATGGGGCGTAGACTTAGAGGACACAGCCTCCCCACAGCAGGTTGCTGTCCAGCCTGTTTGTATGGCCTCGGGTGGAGAGGGCCTCCTTGCTTCCCCTCCTGCTTTTGCCCTTTCCTCCTTTCTCCTAAAGCTGCCCCCAATTTCCCTTTGCAGCTGACCCATCTGGATGGCTTCATTCCTTTGGCACCCCTGTCCAGTCTCCCACCCCTCACTGGCCAGCTTACTGGGGTTGTCCCACCCGGGTCCCTGAGCACTGATGGGGGCTGACGTGAATCCTGTGACCTAGGAGGGGCCCAGAGGCAATTGTCCTCCCTTCCCCACAGGGCTCTCTCCTCCACGTCCCATGGCGAGGCGGTGGCCAGCTGGACCTGCTGGGTGTGTCCTTAGCCTCCCTGAAGAAGCAGGTCGACGGCGAGGTAGGGGCTGCGGGTTTGCTGGGGGGCGGTGGCGGGGCCGCCTGAGCCCTCCTGATTCCAGCCTGTTGTTTGCACAGCGGCGGGAGCGGCTGCTTCAGGAGGCCCAGAAGCTTTCAGACACCCTGCACAGGTGACTTGGTTGGCCCTTCCGCCCTGGGGACCCTTGTTGGCTCTTGCACCAACTCCTAGCTCCTAGCGTGTGGGTTGGCATGGTCCCTGCGAGTTGTTTGTGGCTCAGGACGTGGTCCTCTCCAGTCTCAGGTCGGGGGAGGAGGAGGCAGCCCAGCCCTTGGGGGCCCCTGAGGAGGAGCCGACTGACGGTCAAGACGCCTCCAGTCACTGCCTCTGGGTGGATGAGTTTGCACCCCGCCACTACACGGAGCTGCTCAGTGATGACGTGAGGTCTTGTTCTCACTCAAGTGTGGCTGGCTTCCTCTGTTCCCAAGATGGAAGAACCTGGGCCCAGTGATTTTTGCACAGCCAATCCACTGGGCCTCGGAGACGGAGTGGGCTCTGGTTTGCCCTTTTGAGTTGTAGGTGGTGAACTGAGCACAGGGCTGTGTGCTACTGGTCCCCTGTGACCTGTGAGGCAGGCTAGGGGTCCAGGGTGTCACCTGATCCAAGTCTCTGTTCCCTTTCCTACCTTCACAGCAGCTGACACTGGAGTGCCCCTGGGGAGGGCAGGGGCCTCCCAGATGGGTTGTGGCCAGAGCCGTGGGGGTGGAGCCCCTGGTGTGAGCCTTGCGGTCACTCGCTGGCAGGAAGACGGGGGTGGCCATTCATCCTGTGGCTTGGCATCCCATGGGGCATGGGGCTCATGGTGGCAGGTGGACTGTCCGTGCCTGGAGGCGGTGCCCTCAGGCTGTGCTTCCCTTCCCGTCCTTCCCGCAGTTCACCAACCGCTGCCTGCTCAAGTGGCTGAAGTTGTGGGACCTGGTGGTGTTTGGCCACGAGAGGCCTTCCCGGAAGCCCAGGCCCAGTGTTGAGCCGGCCCGGGTCAGCAAGGAGGCCACAGCCCCAGGCAAGTGGAAGAGCCACGAACAGGTGCTGGAGGAGATGCTGGAGGCTGGGCTGGACCCGAGCCAGCGACCGAAGCAGAAGGTGAGCCCCGCTGGCTGTGCCGCCGGGAACAAGCCTGAGGCTTTGCACTCGGCGCCGGCACCCTTGCAGCCTGTTGACTTTCTCCAGGAGCCGTGGGTGTGGTGACGTGTGGGTCTTGGCGTGAAGCGCCATTAGCGTGAGTTAGAACTGGAGCGTTGCAGTAACAACTCGGGGGAAGTCGTTGTCCCTGAAGGGCTCTGCGGCTGGCCAGGATGATCTGGGTGGACGGTGGGTGGTTTCTGGGGGCCAGTCACACTGGTATCAGCTGTGTTTTGTCTGCACGAACTTTGCTTTGTGTAGGTTTTTTTTTCCGTTGCCATCTTGGTGTGTGAAAGTGCTCAATTTTGTTCTTATTTGATGGCTGGAGTGGGGTGGAGGGAGCGCCCAGCCTGTGGGACACATGTGGCAGTCCCTGGCTGCTAGGCCGGGAGCGTCCTGTAGGTGCGGTGCACACTACGCCTTCATCTACCTGGGCTGCAGGTGGCACTGCTCTGTGGGCCCCCGGGGCTGGGGAAGACCACCCTGGCACACGTGATTGCGCGTCACGCGGGGTACTCTGTGGTGGAGATGAACGCCAGGTGAGTGATGTGAGGTCCGTCTCTGGCTCGCCTTCTGTCCTGACGTGTTTGAGTTCTGGTGGCGGACCTGAAACCGGGTGTGGATGTTCCCGTCTTGAGGGTGGTGGGGGCCTGGGTGTGTGGGCCGGGAAAACGTGTCCTTCCTCGGGGTTCACGGGATCGGCAGCAGCCGCGTCATGTGACGGTCTCCACGCAAATGCGGCAGCCCCGGCCTTGGGAGGCTGCCCTGCCAGGGACGCCCACTGCCCTGACGACCCCTGACCTCCCCATTGCAGTGACGACCGTAGCCCGGAGGTCTTCCGCACACGCATCGAGGCGGCCACCCAGATGGAGTCGGTGCTGGGTGCTGGCGGGAAGCCCAACTGCCTGGTCATCGATGAGATCGACGGGGCCCCCGTGGTGGGCTCCTTGATGCCTgggtaggtgggtgggcgggcaggcaggcgggcagcagggcCTGGACTCACCGTGTCCTCTGACCTCCCCCAAGGCCGCCATCAACGTCCTCCTGAGCATCCTGAACCGCAAGGGGCCACAGGAGGTGGGGCCACAGGGCCCGGCTGTGCCTTCGGGAGGCGGCCGACGGCGCCGGGCAGAGGGGGGGCTCCTCATGAGGCCCATTATCTGCATTTGCAATGACCAGTGAGTGCATGGGCGGGCGCCACAGTCAGGAGAGGCTCTGGTGCCTGGAGGGAGGGTTCCGGCCCGTCCCTGTGTCCTGGGCTGTGGTGCCAACCCTGGGGTCCCTGGCCCTGCCGCCTCTCCTCAGGTTCGCACCGTCCCTGCGGCAGCTGAAGCAGCAGGCCTTCCTGCTCCACTTCCCGCCGACTCTGCCCTCGAGGCTGGTGCAGCGGCTCCAGGAGGTCGGTGGAGCCCCAGGAGCCGTGTGGCTGATGGCGGGGTTGGGGGCGTGGCCTCGTTCTGGCCCCTGTTTCCCTGCCCCTCCCCATGGAACCCTGGTAACCCCTGAAAGGATGGGGCATACCATCGGGCCCTCCAGCAGCCCTTCTCCACCAGGTCTCCCTGCGGCAGGGCATGAGGGCCGACCCAGGGGTGCTGGCCGCCCTCTGTGAGAAAACTGACAATGACATCCGGGCCTGCATCAACACCCTGCAGGTGGGCGGCCGGCAGGCACCGGGTGGGGTGGGGTGGGGTCAGGAGTTGGCCGCTTCTCATGCCCCCGCCCTATGTCTAGTTCCTGTACAGCCGGGGCCAGCGGGAGCTGAGCGTGCGGGACGTGCAGGCCACACGCGTGGGCCTCAAGGACCAGCGCAGAGGGCTCTTCTCGGTGTGGCAGGAGGTCTTCCAGCTGCCTCGAGCCCAGAGGTAGGCGGTGGCCACAGCCTCGGCCCAGATGCTCACGGTGCCCGGACCTCAGGACGCTAGCCCTGTGTGCAGGCCAGCACTACCTTCGAGGCGGGGACTCAGTGTCCTGAGCCCGCGGTTGCCTGGTCCAGCCTCCAGGGCCCTCCTCAGCCTTTTCCTGGCTTGTTCTCGCCCCTACAGCCTTGGGGGGTCAGCTAGAGAAGCCTCCAGGGCCCCCTGTGGGAAGGACACCCCCAGTGTGGTGGGGCCTCCAGGGCGTCCCTCTCCAGGGCGCCCCTTGACTCAGCTGCTGTCCCAGTTGCACCCTCATTTTTGCCACATTTGGCCTGGGCTGTGGTCTCTGAGCCCCTGCCTGCCCACACTGCTTGGCCTCCCGTGGGCAGGAGCAGCCAGCATGTCTCTGTCCTGACGTGCCATGGGACCCCAGGGGATGCTGGCCTGGTCGTGCTGCAGGATATGGGAGACGCTGGCCTGGGCCTGTGGGATGTGCTGCTCCTGGCCTGGACCCGGAGGGGGACTTTCCCTGGGGTCCCCTAACCCCAGAGGGTCAGGGCAGGGCTCCTCTCAGAGTGGGGCTCCTCGGCTTAAGGGAATGTTTCAGGGGGTTGAGGTCCGGGCGTGTCTTTGGCTGTCTCCACCTGAGCGAGGCAGCAAGGGCCCTGCTGAGAAGAATGAAGTGGGTGGCAGCTCTGATGGGGCCTCTGAGTGTCCCGGGGAGACGGGTGGGGCTGCCTGTGCTTTTAACACGGGTCCATCTAGCTTCAGCACCCCACCTGCAGGCGCCGTGTGGGCCAGGACCCCGCCCTGCCTGCTGACACACTCCTGCTGGGTGACGGGGACGCGGGCTCCCTCACCTCCGCCTCACAGCGATTCTACCGTGTCCTGCATGCCGCTGCCTCTGCGGGCGAGCACGAGAAGGTGGTCCAGGTACCTGTCTTCCACCAAAATGCCTGCCTGGGGCCGCCTGGCTAGGACCTGGGCTGTGCCCCTGCCCCTGCCGGTCCTCCCGTATGGACGGGGAGGCGCTTTGGGGGTGCTGAGAGAGGCAGGTTCGGGAAATGGGGTGCCAGGAAGTCTCTGAGGTGGGGAGCAGGAGCCAGGAGGGTGGGAGGGGCTGCAGGGCACGGGCCGGCAGGCAAGGAGGTAGGGGCGGCCGTCTGACGGGGGAGGTCGCTCTGGTGGCTGCTTGGGACTCTCAGCGGGTTGGGGTGGAGCCCCTGCCGGACAGCCTGGCCTGGGGCTGCGAGGGGCTGGATTCTGGACTTAAGATGCACATGGGGTGGAGAGCAGTGCGGTGAGGGCTTCCTGCCGCCCTGCCCGCGGGAGTCCCCGCCTAAGCTGTCTGCTGACTCTAAGCGGCTTTGGATTAGCAGCTGGGGATCCACAACCAATCCCCAAATCCCAAAAGCCGCGATGTGGAGGGGCAGCGTGGAGCAGCGGCGGGGATAGACTCCCCCACGGAACAGGGGTGGGGACGCCACGGCCTGGACTCTGGTGGGCGGAACTTCCTCAGGCAGTCTAAGGAGGGGCTGAGTGAGGCTGGATCCCTTTGGTTCCTGGAGGCCTCCTGGTGGGTCACCCCCTCGTGTCAGTCTCTGTCAAGTCAGTCTCTGTCAAGCTGTAGCGAGGATGCTCAGGGTGGACCCTCCCCCGACCCCTTGGGCCCAGTGACCCCTTGCTGGTGTGTGCTGCTGCCTCAGACGCCCAGCGTCGTGGGGACCCTTGTGGAGGGTCTGCGAAGCCTCGTGGGGCAGGCGGCAGGCAGGAGTGGAGGGTCTGTGGCGGGAGGTGGAGGGTCCGTGGTGGTGCACCTTCCCTGGGGTGGGCAGGAGCTCAGGGGTTGCCGGCCGCCTGCAGGGCTTGTTTGACAACTTCCTGCGTCTGCGGCTGCGAGACTCCAGCCTGGGTGCTGTGTGTGTGGCCCTCGACTGGCTGGCCTTCGATGACCTGCTGGCGGGGGCTGCTCATCACAGCCAGAGCTTCCAGCTGCTGCGCTACCCACCCTTCCTGCCCGTGGCCTTCCATGTGCTGTTTGCTTCCAGCCACACACCCAGGATCACCTTCCCCAGCAGCCAGCAGGAGGTGTGctcgtccctgcaccacgcctgcccccggccccgtgcccgcccccctgtgctgcccgtgtggctgcccccggccccgtgcccgcccccccaaacacactgcccgtgtggctgcccccggccccgtgcccgcccccccaaacacactgcccgtgtggctgcccccggccccgtgcccgcccccCCAAACACACTGCCCGTGTGGCTGCCCCCGGCCCCGTGCCCGCCCCCCTGTGCTGCCCGTGTGGCTGCCCTGGCCCCACCCACCATTCCCCCCTCGCCCGGGAGGCCCAGGTGACCAGGCCTTGGCTCACCCCCTGCCCCAGGCCCAGAACCGGATGAGCCAGATGAGGAACCTGATCCAGACGCTGGTGTCCGGCATCGCGCCAGCCACGCGCAGCCGGGCCACGCCCCAGGCCCTGCTCCTCGATGCCCTCTGCCTGCTCCTGGACATTCTTGCACCCAAGCTCCGCCCCGTGAGTGCCGTCCCCGGGGTGGGGGATTCCCCGCCTGCTGCCCTCCTGTCCTAGGTGAGCACACATTTGTACAGCCTGCTCAGCTCCCTGTCTGCTGCCTCCCATCCCCTAGGTGAGCACACAGCTGTACAGCACCCGTGAAAAGCAACAGCTGGCCAGCCTGGTGGGCACGATGCTCGCTTACAGCCTGACCTACCGCCAGGAGCGCACGCCCGATGGCCAGTACATCTACAGGCTGGAGCCGTGAGTCCCCCAGTGCCTGGGGTGTGCTCCAGGGTCATGCTCCCCGGCTGTGCTCCATGTTCAGGGCCCGCATGGGGCCAGGAGTCTGAAAGCACGGTCATGGCGTCTGGGGGTGGCGGGCCCCAGCTTATCTTTTGCTCAGATGTAACCGTGAAGGGGGGTCACTTCCAGCTACTTGAGATTGGCTCTGGGACCTGAGTTTTGCTGCAGAGCTGCTCCCAGCCTTAGCACCCCCACATGGAACTGGAGCCGGGGGCCCCGAGAGTGACTGCACTTTCCAACACTCCGTTTCCCGCTGTGGGATGGCCATGGGGGTGGTGGGGGTGAGGCATGGGGCAGTGGCCCCGGGGTCCTGCTGCCCCAGCGACGGCACCAACTTGCAGGACGCTGAGTCACTCTCCGTGGCAGCCATCggcaggtttcatcatcatcccacgtacacttgcagttggggaaactgaggctcggggcagttaaacctggctgccgcagggttggggtgcggtggcaccaggactcagccccacattcctgctctggCCTTGTGGCTTTTGGGGTTTGCGGTTGGAGTGCCCGGCGGCTCTCTGGCCCTGAGCCTGGCCCCGCTGACCTGCCCTGGTGTCCCCCTGTGCTGAGCAGGAACGTGGAGGAACTCTGCCGCTTCCCTGAGCTGCCTGCCCGCAAGCCCCTCACCTACCAGACGAAGCAGCTCATCGCCCGCGAGATCGAGGTGGAGAAGATGCGGCGGGCGGAGGCTTCTGCCCGGGTAGAGAACAGCCCCCAGGTGAGCCCACCCAGGCTCTGGAGCAGGTTGCAGTCTGGGCGTGCACCATCCCCACTGTATCCCTGTGTGGCCAGATCTCACAATGCCTGCTCCCTACAGGTGGATGGGAGCCCCCCAGGGCTCGAGGGTCTGCTGGGGGGCATTGGGGAGAAAGGGGTGCACCGACCTGCCCCACGCAACCATGAGCAGCGGCTGGAGCACATCATGAGGCGAGCGGCCCGGGAGGAACAGGTGTGGAATGGGCAGCTGTGGGGGTGGGACCAGGGTACATACCTTTGGGGGTGTGGCTAGGGCAGTCATGAGGCGGGGCCAAGGCACCCATGGGGTGGGGCCAGGGTACCTTTGTGGGTGTGGCTAGGGCCCCTCATGAGGCAGGGCCAGGGTACCTTCAGGGCTGTGGCTAGGGCAGTCATGAGGCGGGGCCAGGGTATCTTTAGGGGTGGGGCCAAGGCACCCATGGGGTGGGGCCAGGGTACCTTTGGGGGTGGGGCTGAGCCACAGGAGGAGTCTGGCTGAGGGTGGGGCTGGCTCAGTGCCCTAAGGGGGGCTCTGAAGGACCAGCTCCTTACCCTCAGCATGACCAGGGTTCTACCCAGGCCTCAGTTTCCCATCTGGGCAGAAGAGTGGCTGTATTGGCTCTTCTTGATTGGCACCTGGTGGGGAGCAGATGGCAGTGAGGGGTGAGGGGCAGCTGGCCTGGGCCAGGTTCCGAAAGGTGTCTCAGAGGTGTTCTGGTCCCTCCTCCCTGGGAAGGCTCTCGGTCCTCCTGTCTTGGGTAGGGGCTGGATGGGGCATCTGTCCTATACGACTGACTAGTCCTTCCTCCCATCAGCCTGAGAAGGACTTCTTTGGACGTGTGGTCGTCAGGAGCACAGCAGTCCCGAGTGCAGGTGTGTGTGGGGGTGTTGTGGGGTTGTGGGGGGCCTGGGGGTTGTGGGGGGGCCTTACAGCTGAGGAGCAACCCTGTGGCCCCGCAGGGGACACGGCCCCGGAGCAGGACTCAGTGGAGCGGCGCATGGGCACAGCGGTGGGCAGGAGCGAGGTCTGGTTCCGCTTCAACGAGGGTGTCTCCAACGCCGTGCGGCGCAGCCTGTACATCAGGGACTTGCTCTAGTTCTCTGAGCCGCGGACATGCCCTCGCATTGCTTCCCGCAGAGTGCAGAGACAGGAAGCTGGAGATGTCTTTATAAAGTCACACCTTTACAGACTGTAATCACGTGCGAGTGGAGTGGGGTTCACAGGATGGTGGGAGTGGGGCCGGGCGTGGGCTCATAGGATGGTGTGAGTGGGGCCAGGAGTGGGGCTCACAGGATGGTGGGAGTGGGGCCAGGCGTGGTCTCACAGGATAGAGTGAGTGGGGCCGGGCGTGGTCTCACAGGATGGAGTGAATGGGGCCGGGCACAGTCTTACAAGATGTtgtgagtggggccgggagtggggctcacaggttggtgtgagtggggctgggagtggggctcacaggatggagtgagtggggccgggagtggggctcacaggatggtgggagtggggctgggagtggggctcacaggatggtgggagtggggctggaagtggggctcacaggatggtgggagtggggctgggagtgggACTCACAGGATGGAGTGAATGGGGCTGGGCATAGTCTTACAAGATGGAGTGAGTGGGGCCGGGAGTGGGGCTCACAGGTTGGTGTGAGTGGGGCCGGGCATGGGCTCACAGGATGGTGGGAGTGGGGCTGGGAGTGGGACTCACAGGATGGAGTGAGTGGGGCTGGGCACAGTCTTACAAGATGGTGGGAGTGGGGCCGGGCGTGGTCTCACAGGATGGTGTGAGAGGGGCCGGGTGCGGGGCTCACAGGATGGTGCATTTGCCCTTTTCCACCCATGGGTTGTTCTTCATCAGGTCGGGGTTCAGGAAGGGGTCCTTGGGGATCCCGTCCTCGATCCACTTCAGCAGCCTGCGGGTGGGCGGGTGGCAGGTGAGTGGTGGCACCTGACCCCCGAGGGCCTCCTGCTGCACCTGCCTGTCGGCGGCGGTGGTCGTGGCTATGGAAATGAGCAGCCAGCGCAGGGCAGACAAATGAGAGGCAAATCAGGCAGGTGGGGCACTCACTCGGGGATGGTCTTGGACGCCATCTCCCGCTGGAAGGCCAGCTGGTACTTGAGGCTCTCCACCTCTTTCTTCATCTGTGGCACGTCCCACTCCTCCATGGGGTCAGGGGCTTCTGAAGCAGCCAGCCTGGGGCTGGAGGGCACAGGAGGAAGCCACAGGGCCGAGGCCACCAGCCTGTAGTCCCCACCCCCGCTGCTCCCCGCAGGCCTGAGCTGAACCCCGCAGGATGAAGCGGGGAGAGTCCACACCACTGCCTGGGCCAGTCCCCTAGGCGTTGCTAGGGTGCAGGGCACAGAGCGAGTTCCCACAAGGCCCCAGCTCCCGCCTCCTGCACTGGGACTAATTAACTGCAAGAAACTTTACATCCTCAGCTACTCCCCCATAGGCCCCCACACCTTACGAAGATCCCTTGCAGGCAGGAGAAAGGGTGCTCAGCACGGCAGGCCCCCAGCTCCTACCCTCCCACTGAGGCCCACGCAGGCTGACCCAGACCACGGTGTGAGGTGTGGGGCGAGGTCCTCAGGAGGTGGCCCCTGCCCCGCCCCGCTGTGTGCCCCTTTGCTTTGCATGGCAGAGCCCAGTCCAGAGCCAGGACTCCTGGACAGGAATGTTCTGCTGCAGTTTGCTTCTCTGGCAGGTGGGGTGTGTGCTCAGGATCTTGGGGGCTCAGGCTATACTACCCGAGTCTGGGATATGGGCTGTGGGTGGCCCCTGGGTCCCCAGTGTGTCTGGGAACCACACACGTTACCTGCGTGCTTTCTGCTTGTGGCCAGCCTGGGAAAGCCACAGGTTGACACCCCTCAGAACTGCCACAAGTTCGAGGCAAGTGGGGGTGGGTTGCCCCCTGCCTCTCCCCCTACCCACTCCAGGGGCCCAGGGAGTCCCTCACTCCGTCCCAACTCTGGCCCCCGTCCCCAAGGTTGGGAGACAGGGCTGAACCTTGGGAGGGTGGGTGGGGGTTGGCGTCAAGTTTCGGGGAGCCTGCCTCTGGCTGTGAAGGGGGCTCCTGGCCCAACAGTCTCCCCATCCTTTGGTCGTGCAGCTGCACCGGCCACCTAGGGAGGGGCCCAGGGCCTGAGGCTGGTGGGGTCCCGGTGGTGAATTGGGCAGACTCCCAGCAGCCAGCAGAGGGTCTGCCCGTAGTGGGGTGGGAGGCCGGGGAGCGAGCGGGGGCAGGTTTCTGGGGGAGTGATCAGGGTCATGCAGAGGATTCCCTCCCGGAGACTCTGGAGTTCCAGCACCCCTACCCGCCCCCATCCCCGGTGCAGGCCTTTTCTCGGAGACCCTACACTCAGCCCCGTGGGCGCAGGACTAGCTGCGTGCGGGTCCTCCCAGGCCCGGGGTGTTGGCGCCCCGCCCACAGCCCAGTCCTTGCTGCCCAGCCCTACCTTCGCGCAGCTGCCGCCAAGCCTGGCCACCCACCCCGTGCACCCCGTGGACGCCCCCAGCCACGGGACTCGGTGGGCACTGCAGGCGGCGCACGGCGCTCAGATGGACACAGCTCCCCCGCACCGCGAGAGCCGCCTCCCTGCCTGCAGCACCGGCTCGGGTTGGGTTTTGCTGCCTGCGGGGCAGCTGCCCTCGCCCCGGGAGTTAGGGTGAGCCCAGGGGACTGACCTGGGCCAGCTGAGAGTCGAGGGGCCTCCGGGCCCTCCCTAGCCCCGGGCGCCTGTTCATCGGACCTACCTTGAAAAGGTGACAGCGGAGGGACAATGACAACGGCCAGGCGACCGCGAGTGAGAGCGAGGGCCAAGTGATGTTCCGGGAGTCCGCCAGGCAGAGCCCTGGCTGTGCCCCGCCCCTCCCGCCACCTGGGCCCTGGCGCCGCCCCCACACCCTCCTCAGGGCTGGGCTGACCCCAGAGATAGCCTGTGCTGCCCCCTCCCCTGGGCTCACCCAGCGGATGGACATGCAGCCAGGGGCCAGTGTGGGGCTGGTCCATTTTCCCTGAGGGGCCAGCTTGGGCCCTGGTGGAGAGGTCTCCTTCCACTTGAGGGGGTGGGTTCCCCCTCCAGTGTCCTGGGCCAGCCGGGAGGAGTGGGGATGGGGCTGGGACCCTTTGCCCTCTGAAGCCTCTGCAGCCTGCAGGGTTCAGGTGACACTCAGCTGTGCCCCCCTGACAGAGGCATCCTGTGTGGGCCATGTGGCTCACCCTGGGATGTGAGCCTCTTACTGCTAGGGGCCCCGGGGCTCTGTGGAGCTCCCTGCTCCAGCCCGATCCCCTGTTCCCAGACCAGTGGCCGGCACGGGGCAGCTCCCGAGGGCAGGAGAGTGCCGTGCTTTTCAGTCTGATCTGAGCTGAGAGTGGCGGCCTGAGGCGTCCCCAACACCGGTCCACTGTGGGTGCTCTGGGGCACGCTGCCTCGGGAGAGGTGCCCCCAGCTGCAGCACTTGGGCTCGGGTTGTGTGACCTCAAGGCTCTGGGGAGAGGGCTTCCCTTTGGGGCTCCGCACCTGTCAGCCTGCAGAGCTGAGACTGGCCCCTTTTCCTCTGACACGTTTCCCCGTGTCTCCTCCCACCCTGCCCTTGGGTGTACCCCTTGGGCTCCTGTGGGAGCTGTGCCCTATGTACCAGCAGGTGACGTACATACCAGGCTGCATCCTAGGTGGGGGCGCCCAGGCAGCAACAGCAGCCTCTGGGGGCACAGGGCCAAGCTCCCCAAACAGTCCCTGCAGAAGCTGGGCCACCCCCGGGGAAGCGTGGGCCAGGCCCTCGGTGGGTGCTGGCAGGGCCAGGGGCCTGTGAGCAGGTCACTCTGCCTTCCCCAGTGTCACAGGGAACCGCCCGGCCTGCCTGGGGTGGCCCAGACCTCTGCAGGGGTTGTCGGGGAGAGGTGGGCCCTGTCCCTCTCAGGCGCTCAGGTCCCTGAAGTCACTCAGCAGGACTCCCTGCCAGTGTGACTCCGTGAATCGGGGCCACCTGCACCTCCCGCCCTGATGTGTGTCGGCTGGATCAGAGGCGCCTCTGGAACTGGGGCACATTAGGGAAGGGATTATTTTTATTATGGATTTGGGGGTGGGGTGGGGCAGCTTAAAGCCCAGGGCACGAGGCCTCCTCCTCAGGGCAGATGGTTGCCCCTCTTGGCATGGTGGGGGCTAGACGTCTCCCTGATCCCAGTGCCCGCCCTGCCCTGCCTGTGCCCCCTGGTGCTGTGACTTCGGATGCACCTTAGTTTCTGGGCTGCTGAGGGCTCTCCCTGTGGCTGGGGGCACCACTTTGGGCGCCAGAGAGTGGAATGGCTGTTAGGGGAGGGGTGTGTGCCACCCCAGGATGCAGGCAAGGCGGGGGGGACCCCAGGGCATGTCCCCCACGTTCCCTGGGACAGCAGGTGGCTTGGAGCCAGGGCCAGGCGGGGGAACACCCTGAGGTCCGCAGCTGAGTTGTGAGAGCTGGGGGTTCTGTGGCCACTCTCAGGACCCCAAGCGGCCTTTGCATCTGCTCATCTGGAAGGACCTAGGAGGTCTCCTAATGGGGTCGCCAAGGCTCCAGGTTCTGGCTTTTGGTCAATTCACTGGACCCAGTAAGGTCCCTGAGGGTGCCTGAGCTCTGTCCAACACGGCCAGTGCCCCCAGTGAATCAGGACACAGGTTGGAGTGTGGTGTGGGCCACCAGGACAGGTGAGACGGGCCGTGGGGTCACGTCCTGGAGTGAGCACTGCCCTGTGGTCCGGGCAGGTCCTGCCAGTCCTCAGCATCTCAGCAGAGAAGTGGCTGTGTGTACCTGCATGGTGGACCCGGCCTGCCTACCTGAGCAGGGTCTGGGTGACCCCCAAGGCCAAGGGCAGGAGGAGGTTGAGGGAAGTGGGGGCAGGGCCAGGGCAAGCTGAGGGTTTTGGGTCTGCTGCAGGCCCATGTCCCAGGCATGTGATGTGGGTCCCGTCTCTCACCCCACTTCTGTGGCGTTTCTGGTCGCTGGGGGGGCACCAGTCAGCCTCGGTGTCGTGTGGACCCCCAGAATCAGAAGCAGGTCCTGTGCTGACCTGGGTGGGTGCAGTAACCTCTGCTCCCGTGTGAGGGGCTGTGAGGTCCCATCCTCAGTAAGACGGGGGTCTTGAAGACTGACTTCGACCTTCCTACCAAGGCTGCACTCGGAAACCCCCAAACACATCCGGGCGCTGACGCCTTGAGCTGGAGTCAGCCTCGGGTCTGGAATCTGCCTCCCCCGGCCCTACAGCTGGACCCGGCTTCAGCGATTCTCATTGGGAGGAATGGCAGCCAGTCCCCCAACGGAGTGACCACAGCCTCCCGAGGCCAGGGGCTCCTTTCTGAAATTAGGCCACTAATTGGGCCGCTGGCTGAGAACACGCAGGGCTCTTTCCGCTGCCCTAGAAATAGCTGTCCCTGGCCCGAGGGGCTCTTGACCCACCAGGCGTGGGGCTGTGCCGCTGGGCCTGGCTTGGGGCAGGAGCATCGAGACCTCCCATTTACAGCCAACCAAGACCGTGGGGGAAGCACAGGAGGCCGGAGGCCCTTCACGCTGACTTTAGGGCTTGGTACCACACTGGCATAGGGGGCTCTGATCCCTTCCTAGCGGGAAGCTGCAGCAGGGTCTCCCGGGACTGGCCTCTCGCTGCGGCCTCAACTCCGAATGGGTGGGGGAGACAGCCCCCGACACCAGTCAACTCTCCGGGGAACAGAGGGATAAAGTGCTGAGCTGGGGACCAAGGACCAGTCCCATCCTCCACCCGCCTGTGCCCTAGGCTCTGCAGAGGGCTCTGGCTGTCCTAGGGGGACCCTGTGGCCTGCAGGACCCAAGCAGCCCGGGGGTGGTGGGTGAATGTGTGTGGAGGACACGCTGACTTCCCTCAGTCCCTGCAAACAAAACTGCAAGCGTGGGGCCTGGGGAAATAACGAAGGCAGCTCCTCACCAAAGAAACTCACTCCGCCTAGTTAACTGGAGCTCACGGCAACGACTTTTCTGTCATCTGTGAAAGTTTCAAAGTGATTTTCAAAaacaattgaagctcttaaacccaagcacagaaaacacaacggaaaacttcaagggatggggtggggggaggggggagggatagcattaggggatatacctgatgttaaaagacgagtaaatgggtgcagcacaccaacatggcacatgtatacatatgtaacaaagctgcacgttgtgcacatgtaccctaaaacttaaagtataataaaaaaaaaaaaCAACTTCAAGGGAGTCCCGGGTGCGTGGCTGTCATCCACACCTGACCTCCATTGTGTAGTCAGGGGCCTGCTGGGGGCTTGGCCGTAGCCACGCTCGCGCTGCAGCCTCGGGGTAGCGTGCCTGCCTTAGCTCGGTTTACTCTGAACAGCTGCAGGTCAGTGCGTGGTTACAGTCGCCGGAGGTTTCCTACTTAAGAGACGCCCGTCTCCTGAAAAGCTAGGTATGTCTTTGCTAACCAGAAGCATGGCCTGAGGCAGGAGGTCCTGGAAGGACAGAAGCAGGCTGGGCGGTGGATCCCCACAGGCTCGGACGCCCTAGCTCCTGGCCTGAGGACTGGAGGTCAGTGTGTCACCAGGAGCAATGCCAGCTGGGCTCCCGGGGATGGGGTGCTGCCCCCATTCGGAACTTGAGTGTGTTTAAGGGGAACCGACGGGCAAAATAACAGCCTGCTGGGTTCAGAGGCCCCCACTGCCGGCTCCACCAAATTACGCTCTTCCAAGAGTACCAGCTCAGAAGTCGCAGATTTTCCAAAAGAGAGACACATTTGCTCAGCCGAGGGTGGTGGGAGGCCTTGAGGCGAGACCTTTCCAAGGTCTGTGGGGGAAGGGAAGGGAGAGTGAGTCGCGCCTTCTGCCCCAGGCCACCCTCCGGTGTGTCGTGGTCCCTGGGGCGGCTTTCCTAGGAGCCCGTGATCCGCAGGGTGGTGGCCAGAGCCGTGCAGCAGCCTGACAGGGCTTCTGGCTTTGGGAGAGTCCCTGCCCACACAGACGGACACTTGCTTTGGGATGACTAGgctgggtgcagtggctcacacctgtcattccagcactttgggaagctgaggctagaggatcccttgagcctggaaggtggaggctgcagtgaactgtgatcatgccacagctcacaacagggagaccttgtctcaaaaaaaaaaaGGGATGACAAAGGTCCCGTGATTTTGCCTAAGGACACCTAGAAGTTAAGACGGTGTGTTCTGGCCTCTGGCTGTCCCCACGGCTTCATTCAAACATCCCGGGCTGGGTGGCCACCACTGTAAGTGCATCAGGGCCCAAGGACCCGCCTGTACCTCTAACCACAGGACATGCTGTGAATCCAGGTTGGCCTCTAAGACCCTGGATGGGTCACGCCACAGCCCATCAGGGATCCTGGGACCCCCAGTGCAGGGGATGGCCCTGCTGCTGCTTCCGGGGCTAGGGAAACCACAGAATGTCCAGTCTTCCAAATCTGATTGGCAAATGGGTTTGGCAGAGCCTAGCCAGATGCTAGGATGGCCCGAACTGACCAGAAGCCCCCGTGCAGAGGTGGCTGCTGGGGACAGCCAGGTCACCCCAACACGGGTGGGGCAGCTGCACACCCCACTTACCACCCCATGGGTCACAGGCCTCGAACGTGCATCCTGCTACGTGGAGACCAGACCACAGGTGGCCAAGCTCCGTCTCGGGAAATAAGCCTGGGGCCCTGGGCGGCCGGCACTCACTTCCTGGCTATCTCTACCACCCCATGGGGCAGGAAGACACCCGCCTGCATTTCTGAGCTCCCAACCAGCTCAGGAACAGCGCAGCCGCTCGCAAATGCAGTGTGCGAGGTACAGACCGTTCCAGGGCCTGGCCTGCGCCCACAGGGAACTCCTGCCATGCGGGCCCCTTCTCACAAGGGGACACCGCCCACCCCCAACCCCTGGGGCCCAGAGCAGCCCCAGAACAGACACAAGCATCCCAAAAAGGGGGTCACTGGGGTAGATGCACACATCTGGGGACCCTGTGTGTCATCCCAAGTGGGCCATAGCCCTGGGCATCTGGTCTTAGGTCCCAGGGCTTTGCCAGCAGAAGCCTCCAGGTGTGCAGGGTCTGTGCTAGAGGCCTCCAACCGGCCACCATGGGCTGTCCACCCGTGTGGCAGCACCCGGGTCCCTGCAGCGCCTGAGACTCCTCGCACTCAGTGGACAGCAGAGCGCCCCTGAGCAGCCTCGGTATCTGCAGATGCACAAGGCTGGCTGGGGCAGAAGCAGGGGAGGGAGGGGCTCTGAGGAAGGCGCCTGCGTCCCCACAGATCAATCACTTGATGTTTGACATGACCTGCAAACGTTTTATTTGCAAAATACAGAGAGTAGACGACAGGAAGTAgcggcttacacctgtaatcccagcacttatggaggccaaggcgggaggatcccttgagctcaggagttggagaccagcctggacaacaaagtgagaccctgtctctacaaaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggtgcgcacctgtggtcccagctattggagaggctgaggtgggaggattgcttgagcctgggaggtggaagctgcagtgagctgagataatgtcactgcactccagcctgggcaacagagtgagactctgtctcaaaaaaaGTTGAggccgggcatggtggctcacatatgtaatcccagcactttgggaggccaaagtgggcagaccacctggccaacatggtggaaacctgtctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccaggggtggtggcctgcgcgcctgtagtcccagttactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcacttgaacccaggaggtggaggttgcagtgagccgagatcatgccattgcactccagcctgggcaacagagggagactccatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaTGTTTGggccgggggcggtggctcacgcctgcaatctcagcactttgggaggcggaggcaggcggatcacgaggtcaggaggttgagaccatcctggccaacacggtgaaaccctgtctctactaaaaaaaatatacaaaaaaattagccaggtgtggtggcgggcgcctctagtcccaggtactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgagaacccgggaggcggagcttgcagtgagccgtgatcgcgccgctacactccagcttgggtgacagagcgagactccgtctcaaaaaacaaaacaaaacaaaacaaaacaaaaACAAGTTTGGAGCCACGCGGCCACAAGCCTCTTAAGGACGCCTGGAGCTCCCAGAGCCCCCAGGAGCTCAAAGAGGCAGGAAGGGTCCTCCCTATAGCCTCTGGAGGGATCGTGGCCCCCATTACCTTTTCAAAATGTCACCTCTCCCCGCGGTGTGACCCTCGAAAGCTAGACGTGCCCAGGAGGCAGCAGCCCAGGCCCCGCACCTTCCCTCCCGCTCCCTCTGGCCGCCGGGCCTCAGCCAGCGCTGCTCCCTGACCCGCCTGTGCCCTCGCCAGGGCCCCTCGCCGCCGCCTCCTGCCGCCTCCCGATATGGCCAAACACCCGGGCGCGAGCCCCGCGTGCAGGCGCCGGGCCTGGGCCCCTGTGGCCGTCCCGCCAGCGGCCGTCTTCTGTCCCTGCATTTAGAGAAGGGGGATGGCAAAGGGACCCGCCAGCGGATCCCTCTTACAGGTGGGGAAACTGAGGTAAGACGGTCAGGGCTGGCCCCAGGGCGTGGCGGGCCCTCGGGGCAGTCGCCCAGACCACCCGGACGGCCCCGCTCGCAGCCTTCGCCCGCCCCGGCCAACTTTTCAACCGACCGTCGCGCGCCGTTTACTTCCGCCTTGGGAGATAATTTCCGGGTCCCGGCAGGAAAGGGTCAGCCGCGCACGGTGGCCGCCCGCGTGACGTCAGCGCTCGTCGCAGCCATCTTGGCTCCTGGCAGCGGCTGCCCAGGCCTCGGTCGTGGGCTGGGCGGCCATGTTGGAGTCGGGCAGGGCTCTCATATCCGGTCACTCTCCACTGGCGATGATCGATTGCATTTGACGGACGCGACGCTGGTCGAGAGTCGCtcgcgttgctcgacgttttctgcaactccaggaccgtaaaatatctcgaagacggcgaaagtcgcagacccctgcagaatcagatgatccagaaggatgCCCGCTGTCTTTTTGGTCCATTTCAGTtgtaaaccaagaagtagccgggacaggcctcggtgggcttcggagcgtggctcggcaaggtcgaggtcgcgcctggggggacaggtcgatgcctttctccagagatggttttgaggcctccgtatttaaagggggaaagcgggctgcggggtaaggaaggctccggtcctgtttctgagcccacggtgggaagagaaaaggagGGGCGGGGGGTGGGGGGCTGGGGTCGCCGATGATGCGTCCGCAAGATGAGGGCAATGGAGAGTgagatctgacctcgcgtctgtagttacctgcccaacaacacagggagaggcagtaacttgaccggctccgtcttcggcttcgttctgtccttttggcagcctgaattggggtcctgagcttttactttcACACCGTCCTCCACAGTTTCCTAAATGGGATCTGGAATGCTTCTTCCCTGGCACGCCTGTGAGATCTGAGGCAGAAGCCAGTGTACAGAAACAGGTGTCGCATCAGTAGGCATTCTCCAGAGGCCGACCAATATATTGgagagacggattaatagacggatgatagtgggtttgtcaggggaattggcccatgcggttagggaggccgagaagtcccgggagggatgccatctgcaagccggagacctgggatgctggcagcctggctcggtccaagtcaggaaacggaagaaccaggggagctaaaggtgtgactcaggccagggctgaaagctgagaatccaaggagccgctggtgttaagtcctggagtcccaaggctgggggccctgtccaagggcaggaggaggaagagagagtcccagcgccaggaacaagagcagaacttcttttccctctttttttttttttttttgacagagtctcgctctgtctcctaggctagagacagaatgcagtgcagtggcacgacctcagctcactgcagcgttcacctcccaggttcaagcgagtctcctgcctcagtctgcagagtagctgggactacaggtgcatgccaccatgcctggcaatttgttttgtattttttaggagagatggggtatcaccatggccaggctagtcgcgaactcctgacctcaagtgatccgcctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtggaccatcgtgcccagcccctttttgttctatctgggcccccaggcgattgatggtatccgcccccatggagggtcttccccttggtcccccgacccccaggcaggctcctctggaaaccccctcgcagacacacccagaagcagcgccttatgaggtctctagggatcccttcacccagccaagtaggtgcttgagatgacccaCGGCAGGTCGGACATCTCCCTCCTCGTCCACTAGGACAGTGTCTGATTTGCCCTCTTTCCCTCCCTGCATAAGCTGATCCAGAGAATtgtcacaagacagagttacaaatttagtttaaagatcctcgtgggctccattcgtgatgctagattcgggcaaccgcttggctctacagagagcagggagtgccccggggggctgaacagaggaggctggttttctagacggaagggctgaggaaagcggaaacagaaaacacggatcgctcacttcgaagctgcttttcttgtaagggtgaaagcagaagagaactccttattgtaccggcaaggatcagcctgtttggggatttggctgttattactctcctggtttctcagaagttcagataaacaacttagcttcagtttggtgacatggaactttttttttttttgttgttgagatgaagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagcggcgtgatctcgggtcactgcaaactccgcctctccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctgagcctcccaagtgtctgagattacaagcacgtgccacaacgccttgctgatttttgtattttcagtagagatgagggtttgccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaagtgatcctcccgcctcggcctcccaaaatgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcacctggccACCAATGGCTTCCTATAGATTTCATTTAACAGAAGGAAGGGAGGGGAGAGGGAGGCTGTGGTAGAGGCTGGGGGATTTGAGGAGAGGCTGCAGAGGTTGCTGTGGGTGAGGAACGGGTCCCCTCTGGTTCCCTGAGGAGGGCTGGGAGATGCAGTGAGGTCTTTCTGATGCAATTTTCTATAAAAATGCCGCCCAAATCTGGACCCCATGGTACCTGGGCTTTGAGGGTTAGCAGAGCCTTTCATGATGTCCCAGATGGATCTTGCAGAGACCTCAGTAGAGACGGTGCAGCGGGGAGGGTGTGGGACAGGTCTGGGTGACTTGGGACATGGAGCCAACAGGATAGGGTGTTCCTGGCGGCTTCTCCCAAACAGGCCACATCAGGATGTCCCAGGGAAGTAGCACAAACCCAAACTCCGTGTGCGCCCTTGGCCCGGAACCTCTGGGTTCTGGAGCAGGCTCGGATCTATGGAGGGTTTGCCTTTGGAGCTTCCCCGGGACGTCCAGTGGGCTCTGGGCTGCCCCGGGCTGCTCTGCCCAAAAGGAGGCTCCCACACTGAGCAGCCAGTGGCTAGAGCACTGCCCTGTGGGGAGGCAGACCTGGTTCTCCGGACACTTGATGTGGACGGGGACCGGCTGGCCTCTCCCTCAGCAGGGAGGAGGTGTGGCATGGAGGGACGGCTGTCCACACGGCTGTGTTTGGCTTGGGCTCCTGGctggctctgccacttattaggtggctggcatgggtgagtggcccagcctctctgaggtctgctcgttagaggacggggaggacagtgctgcccagggcttttgggagggttgactgcagcgctgtgtaaagtgtttgcacagtgcccgccaGGGGTAAGGTGGGCATCATGAAAAATAATAGAggctgggggcggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgagaagggaggattgcttgagctcaggagttcaaggcctgcctgggcaacatagcaaaacactatctctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattggcgtggtggctcacacctgtcgtccgggctactcaggaggctgaggcaggaggatctcctgagcccaggagtttgaggctgcagtgagctgattccagcctgggacacagagcgaggccttgtctctaaacaaaccaaaaaaCATGAATACTGGGGTATGCAAAGCGCTTAGTCATAGGTGAACTTAAATGGAAACTATTAATTGAAATCAGGGCTTTggccaggcgctgtggctcacacctgtaatcccagcactctgggaggctgaggcgggtggattgcttgagtccaggagtttgagaccagcctaggcaacatgacgaaactctgtctctaccgaaaatacaaaaattagccagTCTCTTAACCCAGTCTCaaaaaaaaaaaaaaattaaaaagttaaaaaaaaattGGAGGTTACGTGGTTCTGGATGGGATTTTTTCTGTTGCCTAGAAATTGTATCTAAGGCTTAAATGTGAAAATAGAAAGTGCAAAGTACTCCCATGACCGAGGGTGGGACGTAGCCTCAGAATGCTGGGGTCTGATACCTGCCCAGTCCCATGCGAGAGGCTGAGGCTGGCGCTGGCGAGACTCAGTGGCTGGTGGGGGCTCAAGCTCTGTGGTGAGAATTCTCACCATGGTCTTCAGTTACCCCTAGAGATGCCTGCAATGGTGTGGGCTGAGTCCCACTCCCCAGACGGGGAGGTGGAGGACCTCAGACAGCCACTGTACCCACAAGAGCAGGACAAGGAGAATGGAGTGAGCTGGCAGGGCTGGGGGTGGGGGCACCCCCGCACCTCAGGAGCAGGCGGGCAGGCTGCTAGTCTGAGAAGAGGCCACGGTCTTGCTGCTCGCAGGTGTGGGGGGTGAACATCTCAGACTTGAGACGCTCTTGTGAAGACCCAGTTCAGGGCTGGAGCACGTCGTAAGGTTGGTCAGAGACAATCCTCAAAATCCTCTGCCTGGGACCCCCGACCCCCACTCCACGAGGGCAGGTGCAGGAAAGAACAACCAAATATATTCCAGCATCGGAGGACATGCAGGCTGCACACAAGCGGTCAGCCCACAGAGCAGCACGTCGGGGGTTGCAGCCAAGGAATAACGTGAAGGGGGTCTTGAAAGAGCTGTGTTTACAGTTCCCAAGGAGATAAATGAGGGAAGAACAACAAAGAAGCAAGAACAGGGAAACATGCAAAAAGAACAAGGAGCCACCTTCACATGAAAAAACATAATTGTggccgggcacagtggctcacgcctatagtcccagcacttggggaagctgaggcgggcagatcacctgaggttgggagtttgagaccagcctgaccaacatggagaaaccctgtctctactaaaagtacaaaatcagctgggcgtggtggtgcacgcctgtaatcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatcgcttgaatccaggaggcggaggttgcagtgagctgagatcgcgccactgcactccggcctgggcgacagagcgggactctatctcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaCAGTAACATAATTGTAGAAATAAAACCTCACCGATGAGTTGAATGACAGTTGAGTCCCCGCTCTGGAGTGAAGGAGTGAGCCCTGACAGAACCAGGGAGGTTACCCCCGACAGGGAGGAACAGTCCCTCACTTGATCAGGTGCGGGCTCCTCAAGGTTGATTTGTTTGCTTTTCTGTGCGTAAACATTTGGCTTCATAAGACATAGAATAAAACCATGTCATTTCTCATCCTACTAAAAACCAGTCTACCAAAAAATGCCACCATGAACCTTTTCACACCTGTAACTTTATATACGTGTGTGTGTGTACATATCATATATATCTCATACGGGGCTGAGGGCTCAGGCACTGCCCCTTGGTGCAGCCGTGGGTGGGGGGCCTCAAGGACTGTGTGGGAGTCCCCGGGGTCTGTGAGGCCCGCAGGAGGCAAGGAGAGGCCGAGACCCCCAGGGAGCGCCCAGGCCTGAACCCCTCCTGCGCCGCTGACCCTGCAGATGCTGCCGTGGGCGGCGACCGCACAGACATCCCCTCTGCTATTGCTGCGGGACCGGCAAGGACGCCGGACCGACACGGCCTCCCCATCCCTGGGTCCACCCCGACTCCCATGGTGGGGAGCGGCCGGCTTGGAGCCCCTGTGGGACGGAGTGGAGGTGGAGCAAGTGCCCGGAGCTCTCGGCCATCATGTGCGAATGTTTTGCTCCGTGCTGACGCCTCCCTCGGCACCGTCCTGTCTGTGTTGTGGACTGGGCAGCTCTCACGGGGTTGGGCGCTTCTGCCCCCGGGGGACGCTGGCCGGCATCTGGAGACGTCTGTGATCTCCGCTGGTGTTGCCGCAGGCATCTGGCTGGTGGAGCCCGGGGAGGCCGCCCAGGACCCTGCGACCCGCAGGACCGCCCCGCCGCGGAGGACGGCCAGCCCCGAACCCCCAGCGCCCGGGGCACCCCTGCCTGCCTGCCCTGGGCGGATCCCCGGGGCCGCGCGGTTCGGGCCGCGCTCCTGCCCGCTGGGGTCTCCCGCCGTCCTCGCCGTCACCACCGGGTGGAGCCACAGGTCCGTGTGATCGTCCCCGTGACCCCGGGTTCCGGAAGGATCCTCACCCAACGCTGGCCCAGCCCGGCtcccaggacccttcacaatcctaaaaccattcgggcttttgtttacgtgggcggccgctgtggacattcactctaccagaaacagagcatttaaaaatgttcaccttttcacgtaaaaatagcaataaatccattgcacgtgaacatagcattttaaggaaaagcaactgtttccccataaaaaaaaaatgtagtgggaagaaaaagaaggcgtgactttgtgctggattctcatgtctgcgtctgcttgcaagccggtggcctccggaacattccgccccacactttcaggagagtgggaaggaggccgggcgcagcggctcaggcctgtaatcccagcacctggggaggccgaggtgggctgatcacctcagggcgggagtttgagaccaccctgggcaacatggtgaaaccccatgtctactaaaatgcaaaaatgtagccaggcgtggtggcggacgcctgtaatccgagctactccggaggctgaggcaccagaatcacttgagccctggaggtggaggttgcatggagccgagactatgccatatgccatcgcactccagcctgggcaacagagcgagacacagtctcaaaaaaaaaataataagaatgggaaggaaaccgttcttagaagtgtcaggaaaacaggtttgacctcggggaccctggaagctttctgggtccccTTTGAGAAGCATGGTCTGGACACAGCCGCCAGATGCCTGTTGTGGGGTCTTTACCAACGTTGCTTTGCTTCATTCATTCAgagatggagtcttgctctgttgcccaggctggagtacagtgtggcacaatctcggctcactgcaaccttcgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcgtccggcaccacgccgggctaattttttgtatctgtagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtcttgaattcctgatctcaagtgatccacctgccttggcctcccagagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccatgcctggccATGCTTTGCTGCTTTTAAATCTTTTTGTTGAAGACGAGGATCAGACATATGTTATTACAGTTTTCAGAGTAGAAACCAGCTTGAGAAAATCCTATTTATAACCACAGTCACTCTGGGAGGTGAGACTCCTCAGTCCAGAGTCACTGAGGTCCGAATTGTTGGGGAATTACTCACAGAAACCCCAGAAGCAGCTGAGGAGAAGTGGGGCCGAGATGGGGGCCCGCGAGTACAGCCAGGCTGTGCAGAAACTCGGAGTGTGGCACGTGGGCTGCTGGGGCTCAGCCAGGCCCGTCTCTTCTCTTTTGAGGTTGGTGGAAATGCTGGGCTGATGTCATTATGGGTGAATCGTGCTACCTTAAAAAGttttttttgagacaaagtcttgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggtgtgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaagcaattcttctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcgcctgccagcacgctcgcctaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggccagactggtattgaactcctgacctcaagtaatccatctgcctcagcctctggaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagtcaccacacccagccAAAAAATGTAtttttttgagacagggcctcccttagtcacccaggccagagtgcactggcgccatcctagctcactgcagccttgacctctcctgggctctagtgatcctcctgccccagtctcctgagaccacaggtgggtaccaccgtgcctggctaattttttaatgttttttttttttttttttgatagagacgagggctcagtatgttgcctagggtggtcttaaacttctggtctcaagcgatcctcctgccttggcctcgcaaagtgctgggatgacaggAATCTTAGTACTTTAAACAAATAACAGGTTTTCTTTTGGGCAGCTGTGGGTTTTCTGAAACACTGAGGAGACAGAGCCGAGCCCCCATCTGTGCCCTCCCCGCAGGGTCCCGTGGAGGTGACACCCCACACTGGCGTGAACCAGGATCGACGCAGTTTACCGGAGTCCTCGGCCTTCACCGAGGGGCCTTTCCCCATCCTGGGACAGTTCCCGTCTGGCTGCCTGAGCACCCCTGGGCTGTGAAcccccctgggctgtggccatttcttggacttcccttggttttggtggtctgggcggttttgaggaggaaggtcgggatttcctagaaggtccctcaaccggggcttaccatacttttctcgaggctagaAGGGACCTGTCACCTTCCCTGTAGGCACCCGTGTCCCTCCCCTGGCACTGGGAGGAGGTGAGGGGAACCCCAGAGAAGAGGTCACGTAGGGTCAGGCCTGGAAGCCAACAAGGCACGGGGCCAGGGGAGGCCTGGTGCCCTTGGGAGGTGCAGGGGTCCCGGGAGAGAGCTGAGCACCAGGAGGGGTGCAGAAGGCTGCCCCCTCCACACCTGCTGTGCCCCATTTGTTGTGGGTGGGGGCAGGGGTCTACCCAGCGGGAACACGTGGGGCAGCCCCCCTCCCCTGGCCTGGGGCCTCCTCAGCAGGGAGCAGAGGCTGTGCtttcttttttttttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggctggagtgcagtggtgcgatctcctctcactgcaagctccgcctcccaggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccaccaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatatttattagagatgaggtttcaccgtgtcagccaggatggtctcagtctcctgacctcgtgatcctcccgcctcgggctcccatagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccacagggcccggccCGAGGCTCTGCTTTCGTGGGGGGCTCTGGGTCTCTGGTGGCTGGACTCGGCGGAGGGTCCAGGTGTCCTCTTGGCTTCTCTGCACAGGCCTCAGCCCACATCAGGCACCCCCTGCCCCGCAGCAGAGCTCGCCCCTCCAGGCAGTCTCACGGGAATGCACGTTCAGGCCGCCTTTCCCCGGAACCCGCAGCGGCCTTTCTGGAGGCTGCTTCTTGGTGACTGGGGGCTCCTTGGAGCCGTCCCCAGCCTCAAGCGGCTGCATTGCAGCTCAGGGACCCCGAAGGGAGGACCACGTTCTGCCGCTGAAGACTCGGAGTCGCCTGGCAAGACGGAGCGAGAAGGGGAGGGTGGCTGGCATGGGGACTCTGTCTGCTGCCTCGCACCGCACCTTGGAGGACGCTCCGGCCAAGGCTGGGAGGGGCGAGTGCGGCTGCAGGCGCGCGGTGGCGAGGGAGGGTGAGGATCTGACCGGGAGGCGAGGAGGGAGGCTCTGGCAAGACGCAACGCTTTGGCGCCACTGCCGGCCATCCCCTTGCCACCCACCATCGCCCGCCAGGCCCTCACACCTACCTGGTCCTGGCGACAGCCGGTGTGTGAAAAGCCTGTTTCCTCCCCTAGAAAAAGCACGTTTGGCTCCGCTCTCCACTGACACGTTTTTAGCTGAGTGACGATGGAAGCCGCTGGCTTTTAACAGACGGTCTTAACGAGCCTCTGCTCCCCGGCGACCAGCAGACGCGGGCTGACCCACGGTTTTACACACCACGTCTGCGTggcggcggccgggcggccccacggggcccgggcAGGAGGTGACGGCAGCGTTTCTCGCCGCCTTTGCTCAGCGCGCCTCTCATCCCCTCTCTCCTGTCGACTCGCGGCTTCCTGCAGACCCTCGGCCTGTCTGCGGCCCCTCGCCCGCAGCCTCCCCAGCAGCCGAGGTTTCCTATAGCATTAAAAGCAGGAAAGAACCAGCCCTGCTCCCCAGGAACTGAACTTCTGTGGCTCATCTTCAGAGAAGCCACTGTTGAGTGGGGCTCCTCGGGGGTGCTCCAGCTGCGGGTGAGTGACATGAGCCAGACCTCCCCGttttttttttttttttttttttttgagactgtttcgcttttttatcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgagttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtggctgggactacaggcgcctgccccacacccggctaattttgtattttaagtggagatggggtttcaccatgctgcccaggctagtctcaaactcctgagctcatgccctccttggcctcccaaagtgctaggattataggtgtgagccactgcccccggACTGAGACTTTCCCATCTTAACGCCCACTTGCCCCGTCCTTCCGCCCCCACGGTGCCTGGGGGAGCCTTCTCTGTGCAGGACACAGGCCAAAGCAGAAGGAGGCAGGAGGAAGGAAAGCAAGGCAGTCCTTGCTGACTGGGCACCCACGAGCCTGCTGTGTCTGAATGCTGGCTCACCTAGAGTTGGGGGGCTCAGGGACaggactaattctggaaccagactgcctgggttcacactctggtggtgttaccttctgcctacgtggttttaacctctctgtgctctggtttcatcagttgtgaattggggctaatggttcctacctaacaggtgtgaggattagataaatggatacatggagagggcaagtggtcagtgccatgtaagtgtcagccaaagatgatggtgacaatGGTGGTGAAGACTGTAgtgatggtgatgatgacggtgaactgtagtgatggtgatgatgatggtgaagactgtagtgatggtgatgatggtgaagactgtagtgatgatggtgaagactagtgatggtgatgatggtgaagactagtgatggtgatgatggtgaagactgtagtgatggtgatgatgatggtgaagactatagtgatggtgatgatggtagtaaagactgtagtgatggtggtgatgatgatgGCCCTCACCATCTTGGCTGTACCACGTCCAGTTTGCTGTCAGGACACAGCCTGAGGATGCCAGACCTCCATGTTGCAGAACCACCTGACTTTTACTATGGAATACACGTGGACTGTGAAGTAATAATATTCCTTTTCACCTCCCTAGAGTCATTTCCATTAAATCAGAAAATAGGCGTTGAGAAAGGGATGTACTAGTGGGTCCCACTTAAAAAAGAGCAAGTTGAGTGTGAACTCAAGCAACAAAGCTCAACTTAGAGGATTCCTGTTAAGTCATGGAAGGGCTCACCGTTGGGTCCTCCCTGGTGGCCCCAGTGCATGTTGAACCTCTGGGTCCTGTGCTTTCTAAGCCCAAGTCTCTTTCAGGGAGTTAAGAACACTTGTGCCTATTTTTGGGGAAGGAATTTATTCATTATTCCAGGTGTCAGGTGTAAGACATTACGACAATTTATCAGATGCTCAGAGCACAAGCTCTGTTTCACTGAAAGAGTGAACCCAGGAGATGCTGGAGTGGGGGGTGGAGAAGGGGTGGAGTGACGGTAGGCGCGATGCTTATCTGACGTGTGTGTGTTGTCGGCACTGCGGGGCCCTCAGGAAACGATCAGCGGAGTGGTTTCCCTCTGAGCATGTCCTTGTGGCCTGCGTTTATTTAGCACAGCCTGAGCTGGGGGCTGCTGGCCTGGCCTGGGGAGGCCCTCTGGGCTCTGTTGGTGGCTTCCCAGAGTGAGGACCCATTTCAGCTCCTCCCCTCACTCCACACCGTGGAGCCTACATTCCCCTCCTGGTTCCTGCCTCATTGGGTTTTGGAAACATCCTCACTTGGGAGACTGAGGGGCTCCTAGAAGATCTGCTGGGGCCTGATCTTAGAGGAAAAGCGGATCTGCGTCCATAGGACGGGGTCGCAGCACGGAGCAACGGGCCCGGTGTGTTGTGGTTGAGGGCCTCGAAGGGGAGCGAGATTCATGACCCGAAACCACGCCACATTGGCATCAGGAGTATTGTGAGCTGCAGGCAACTGAGATCAACAGAGGCAGAAAAACGGCTTCTCAGAGCTTCTCTTCTGACTAAAACCAGCAACTCCTGGGACCTGAGGCTGCTACAAATTCCTTCTTCACGGTGATTCCGTTCCCAGAGGGGAGAATTGGAATAAAACATGCCCCAAATCTCTGCTTGGGGGGACCAAGACAGAAACACCGCTTATGCCTGTATTATCATAAACTAActtccttccttccttccttccttccttttttagacagagtctcgctctgttgcccaggctagagtgcagaggcgcgatctcagctcactgaaacctccgcctcctgggtcaagtgattctcctgcctcagccccccgagtagctgggattacaggtgcgcaccaccatgcctggctaattttttttttttttgagatggagtctcactctgtcaccgggctggagtgcagtggcgtgatctcagctcactgcaacctccgcctcctgggttcaagcaattctcctgccttagccccccgagtagctgggattacaggcacgtgtgccaccatgcctggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagagggggtttcacgatgttggtccggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcgtgatctgcctgccttggcctcccaaagtgctggggtgacaggcatgagccaccgcgcccagctgcccagcaaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggttttgccgtgttggtcgctaggctggtctcaaactccaaccttaggtgaactgccctcctcagcctctcaaagtgttgggattacaggcgtgaggcgccCAGACAAACTTTTTCCATTGTCCTTCTAAAAGCCCTTTTGTCTTTTTTGAAGAAACCTATTTGTTCTTCCCCTCAGAAGCCTTTTCTGCTGCCCCCTTCCCTGACCTAGTGAGGATACAAGGCAGTGGTTTCCACGTTGCTGAACCACCCACTTCTTTTGTTCGCTGCCGCGTGCTTGTCAATCAAGTTTTTCATCCTATGGATCCGTCTTTTGTCAGTTTAATTTGCAGGCCCCAGTCGCAGAATTTAAGAGGACAGAAGAATGGTCTTTTGTTCCCAACAGCCTCCTTCACCACCACAACCCCACTGGCTGCCTCACCTTACGTGTGACACGCTCGTCGAACTTGCCAGCAAACCCGGGAGGTGAGGATTGCGTGTGATGCCCAGGCAGACACAGTGGCTTTTCATGAGAACAAAGCGTTATCACCTTGTGCAGGTGGCTGAGAGAAGAGGCCCTGGGAGGCAGGGGAGGGCCAGGTGCACACCTATGGGGCGGTGACCCCTGGCAGCATTGGGGGGCTGTGGATATTGGAAAACGTGAAAAAGATGTTTCAGTTTTTTCATGTGTAttcttttctttctttctttttttttttttgagacagagtttcgttcttgtcgcccaggctggagcgcaatggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcgccaccacgcgcagctaattgtatttttttttttttttttaccagagatggggtttctccatgttggtcaggctggtcttgaactcccgatctcaggtgatccgcccacctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagggatgagcgaccgcacctggccTTTCTTGTGTATGTTTTAAATTGGTTTCAAAATGTCTCATGTAGAATCTTTGGTGGGGAGGTATGGATCCACCACGTGTCCCCCACTGCACCCACAGCTGTCACCAGAGCAGGAGCGGCCTGTCCCCGCCAGCTGGGTGCTACCTGCCGACCAGCCAGGAGCTGGGGAGGGTGGGAAGGGTTGTCTTCCAATGTCAGGTTTTCATTGAAATACCTTTTCATTGTGAGCTTTTAACTCCGGGGTTGACTCCGCCTTTCCTCCCTTCTTGACCCTCCTACCCGCCCCCTCCAGCCCTGAGGAGCTCAGCTCCCCACACGGCTGCCCGGAAGTGGCCTCTCTTGACAGCCGCCTCTCATCGCTAGGCCTGACCCTTCTTTCTTCACTTGCTGGCCGCTGTCTCAGCTTCCCCAGGTGTTCCAGGAGCTTGGGGAGGGCTGGACCTGCAGGAGGGTCCCCGGCAGCACTGGGACCCAGGGTGGGGACAAGCTCTGCCTGTTCTTCCAGGCTCTCCTTGAACCTGGCACCCCAGGTACACAGCATGCTTTCCTGgaacagtgtgcccccaaaattctcatctagggagcctcaaatatggccttatttgcaaatacggtcattgcaggaggaattacattaagatgaggtcagactggagccaggtggccttggtcccgtgaccagcgtcctggtgagaggaggaatgagacacgggttggccatgtggacggaggcggagatcagagccatgtgtctacaagcccgggagcactgagggttTCTGGAGTCTCCAGAGCCATGAGGGAATGAACTGGTGTGGTTTGGAGCCCCTGCTCCTTGGCGGCCACAGGATGTGAACTCACCTGGAGCCTCTGGGCCTCCCCCAGGTGCAGGTGGGACCAGCCTGGCTCCTGCCGTCCTGAGGGCTGCAGCCACGGTGTCACGGCTCCTTCTCATCCAGTGGCAGGTCCCACAGGGTGGGGACACCCTTCCCTGACTTGGTGACTGCACTCTGGCAAGACCCCCTGGAGGACGCTCGGGCCCTCTGCAGAGGAGCAGTGAGCTCGGGGGGTTCAGCTGCGATGTGAGTCTGGGGGCTTTGGCATCCAGACCCACACGGAGCATGTCTGACCCACGAACCGAGGCTTCAGTGAGGCCCAGACATTGGGAATGGCCAGGGGCAGCCCCACGCGTGGCCACCGTAGCCCCCCACCCTTTTTACCAGGCTTGGCTGCTGCGGAGGTGGGGGAAGGACTCCGGATGTTTCTCATCAGAAACTCGGATTTTAGCTTGTGAGTGTGAGGGGTTGTACCCACACTTTCATGTAGACACAGAAAAGTGATGGTTCTGAATTTTAGGGAGttttttttttttgagatggagactgtctcccaggctgtagtgcagtcacgtgatctcagctcactgcaacctccgcctcttgagttcaagcatttctcctacctcagcctcccaagtagctggaattacatgtgcccaccaccacacctggctaattttgtatttttagtatagacagggtttctccgtgttggtcaggctggtctcaaactcctgacctcgtgatctgcccgcttcggcctcccacagtgctgggatcagaggcgtgagccgctgcgcccggccTTGGGAGCTCCTTTTAAATCGTGCTGCTTTTCAAGGGAAGGATTCTCAAGGCTGTAGGAGGTTTAGAATACAGCGTGTGCTGGTGCGGCCTGTGTGTGAGCGAGAGTGTCTGCCGAGAATCATACGGGCCCCACTTCCGTGGAAAACAATCCGAATTCCCTGTGTATCACGGGCAGAAGGCTGAAGGAAGTCTCGAGCCACCGTGCGGAGAGTGAAGCTGGCGGTGTCGCGGTAACGCGGTGGAAACGCGTGTTTTGATTCGATGTCTGTCCCGATGCTGGGTTTCACGGTGAGGTCTGGTGTCACTCTGCATTGCCTGGCTTGGGCAGTAACCCTCTTCTCTTGGTATGAGGGCAAATTTTGGTTCTGAAAATCCTTTCCAGGGTGGCTTTGGCCAGGATTTGGGATTGCGGTGGGTTTGCGTTCCGGATTTGGGATTGCGGTGGGTTTGCGTTCCAGATTTGGGATTGCTGGGCTCGCACTGGGATAGTTTGGAAGCCGTGGCCACTCTTGTATGTTATGCTGGCTCATGGTCAGCCTGGCCTCTGGGCTATCCCTTAGATCCCTTGAGGCTATTTGGGGTCTGTATCTTCCCAGGAGAAAGTGAAATATCCTGGATGACAATGTCGTCTGATCCAAGAAGGTCCTTAAAAATGGAACCTCCAGAGGATATTAAAACCCTGAGACCCCCCCAGTCCCGGGTCTGCTTCAGGGAGCATTAACCAAAGGCCTCCACCGCCTGCAAACGTCCTGTCATTCTCCAGGGGCTGGGCCAGGGCTGAAGGCCCCCATTGCCTCCTGTGAGCCTCACAGCCGAGTGCCGGGGACATGAGGGGATACCACGGGACTCTGGGGCTGGGAGGCACATCAGAGCCTTGTATACACAGGGGCTCAAGAAAGACGAGAGGAAATCACAGAAAGGCAAAGAGCCCAATTAACAGACAGGCAGAGGACCCGACCTGACGCCTGTCCACAGCAGGCCCACGACGGCCAGCAGCGGGGGGAGCTCGTCACACTAGGCCCACGACGGCCAGCAGCGGGTGGAGCTCATCACACCGTCACACTAGGCCCACGACGGCCAGCAGCGGGGGGAGCTCGTCACACTAGGGGGACTCTGGTCCTCCGCCTTGACCAGCCCCCACCTGCCGCCCCCAGTCCCACGTTGGCAGCTGTCCCCTCCCCAGGCCCGGCAGCGTGTAGGGAGGCCTGGGTCCCCCGAGTCTGTGGACAAATGTGGTTTGGGGACACCAGCCCCTGCCGAAGCCATGAAACTCAGGGAGAGTGGATGCCACCCCTGGTGTCTTCGTGCTGTGTCGGGAAAGGGATGCTGTGGCAGGGACGCACCTGAGCGTCCAACCTGGTCCTGGGGACGGGGGCGGGGTGGGGCTCCACATCCCGGCAAGGCGTCGGGAGCTGTGAGCCCGTAACACAAGTCATTACGATGCTGGCTGAGCGTGGGCCTGCTGAGAGCCCTGGTGGGCACGCCACTGTCTCGTCCATGGCACCGCCGTCCCATCCGCGGCACCACCATCTCGTTCACGGCACCAACGTCCCGTCCACGGCACCCTCGtcccatccatggcaccactgctggcctggccaggatgcatccctgcgggggggctgcccctgctctgaggatgtttgcagcctcctcagcctccactcacctgatgccagcagcatctgtgattcgagatgggcaaaaacatcccacgttgccctggggtgccctggagggcggagtcccccggGGTCTTCTCTGGACAGTGAGAAGCCACGATGGGGCATTGGTGCCGATTCCATTCGCGTCACAAAGCCCTGCCTCTTACCAACCGGCGGGTGCTCAGCCGGCCGCCTCTGCCCTTCCTCCCTCCCCCACAGACCCCGTTCTGTGCACCCCAGAATGTGGGCTGACTTTTGTTCTTCACCGTGAGAGCTTCCGGGAAGCAGAGGAGAGCGGGATTCCTTCCTCCTTGTCCCTCTCCGAGCGGGAGGGTGATGGCCGACGGCATCGGGGCAAATGTGTTGCTTTGAGAGGCTGAGAGGAGGACGCGTGGCCCCCACCCCTTCCCATGTGGCTTCGTGCTGTGAGCCACAAACGGCCGTGGATCCCAGAGCCAGACTCCGGGCCCGCCCAGCCCAGGGGGAGGGCGGACTGCCAAGCTCAAGCACGCGGCCTCGGTTCAGGGACAGGTTCCCCGTGCGGCGAGGGGCACGGTGGGCCGAGAGCCAGATGAGAACCCGCTGCCTCCACGCGGCCGTGCCCTCTGGCAGCCTGGGCTGGAGGGAGGTTTGCACGGCTGCTAGACATCTTCCTTGCAGGATCCCTGGGGAATTCTAAATTTCAGTCACACTCTCTAAATTTTCATTAAGAGCCTTCACCCAGAGAAAATGATGGATTAGATTTTGTTGTTGGACAGGAGCCAGATAAAATTAGATGCCTCTTTTACTTCCCAGCCCCCACCCCTCCGTTCTTTCCTAAAACCTGTACTTTTCTCCCTCGGTTCCCATCAAACCGGGATTTGAGAATGTTTATTTGCTAAAAGCGATTACGTACAGCCGCTTCCTTTGAGCCTCTGCTTTTATTTTCTGTGTGATTTCGCCGTCATTCCACTTTTTAAAGTCCGGGATGGCTTTCGGTGTCGAGCGCTGTGGGTTTGAGAGCGAGAGGGTTGCTTGTGGTCTCTTTGTCCCCTTCAGGAAAGCGTGTCAGAATTTTACAGCTCAAAGCTGGTAAGATATTTTGCTGCACAAAGTAAATTAATCTGATTCCTCATCCGCCTCTCCTTCTCCCTCCCAAGTTCTCTTTCTCTTTGATGTGCTAACGTGCTCCTTCGGCCACCGAAATACAACTCAGCGTTTGCCACAAAACTGCTGCTTTTTAACCCGGCCGGATTTCCGTGGGCTGCGTGTGCTGTGGTCGCCACTGTGCCTGTGGATGGTGAATTTTAAAAACAGATGTCGGCccgggagcagtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaggtagatcacctgaggtcaggagtttgaggccaccctggccaacgtggggaaaccccatctctagtaaacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacacaaaattagccgggcgtggtggtggcacctgtagtcccagctgcttgggaggctgaggcaggagaattgcttaacccgggaagcagaggttgtagggagccaaaatcaaccactacactccagcctgggcgacagagcgagactccgtctcacaaaaagaataagaGGGTCGGGGAAATGTGAGttttttttttttttgttttgtttttttttttttttttttgagacggagtctcgctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtggcgcgatctcggctcactgcaagctccgcctcccgggttcacgccattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcgcccgctaccacgcccggctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccgtgttagccaggatggtctcgatctcctgacctcgtgatccgcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcgtgagccaccgcgcccggccTGAAATGTGAGTTTTAAACTAAAAAATGTAAAAGCCGTTTCAAGACTCACCAGGCCGAGGAGGGAGGTTCTCTGAGGAGCGGCTGTGCCTTCGGGGAGCGGAGGGTGCGCACACgtgtctctgtgtgtctgtgcgtgtccacgtgtgtctgtgcgtggtagcacgtgtacctgtgcacgtgtgtgAGGTGGTTTTGGGAGACCTGGCCCTGGCTCCACCTCTGCTCATAAACACTGAGGATGTGGCTCTCAGGCCAGGTGTGAAGACTTCTCCCCACCTGCCTTCCGGGTGACTTCCTGAGGTCGCTTCCAGGCCTCAGACCTGGTGCTCTCCCCACCTGCCTGACCCCGTCGCTTCCAGGCCTCAGACCTGGCTTCGCGTCTGTTTTCTGAAGCACCTCTGCTCCGCTCCCCGAGTCTGTCTCATGGGTTTCGCCGCCTGATTCTTGGGCGGCCCCTTGCAGGCTGTGGTCTTCCGTGCAGGTTGGTCTCCCAGTGGTTGCAGAGCTGGTTCTGGTGGAACCCCTGCCCTTGGGCTGCACTCGGGAGgtgccagtcactgtgcccagggatttcacggacctgcttgtcactacgctccccggagtcaccccagggattctgggagggtccctgttgcacaaacaaggaaaccgagacacagGACGGAAAACGGGCCACGGAAAACGGGCCGGCCTCTGCTGCCTGGGTTGTGATGAAGGCCTCGGGAAACGGGCCGGCCTCTGCTGCCGGGTTGTGCTGGAGGTCTCAGGGTAGCTGTGGAAGCTGCACGTGTCACCTTATGTCATGGCTGCAACGGCACGCAATGcacgcacaacatgtgtgcagacacaacacacacacaatacacgcgcatacacagacacTCGCTGCCAGGCACAGGAACACACCCCTCCCCTCATGCCACACACGTGACGACTGGAGCCCGGACGTGCGTCCTGGGGGGACCCTGCTGTTTCTCTCTTTGCCCCACTGTGTCCTGGGAGAATGTGCTCCAGGAACCTTGCAGCAGACAGGACCTGGAAGGGTGTCTGTCCCAGGCCCGGGGAACAGCCCAGCTCAGGCCTGGGGCGCGGGCAGCCAGGCAGGGGTCTGGCCCAGTCCTAGCCAGGGGAAATGAACTCTCGGCCTCCAGGGTATGGCTGGGGCCTCCGTGCCTGGACCCAGGTCAGACGAGTCACTCACGCATCCCGAAATCCTGCCAGAGGCTGGAAGCCAGGTGCATTAAATGTGCTGAGATTTACGCGCCCAGGGCACTGGGGACCTGAACCAACAGTTTGTTCAAAAGCAGACACCTGCCTACAACAGGGTTGTTGTAAAGCTGGATTCAAACACTGAGACTTGTGCGATGAAATGGACCCAGGGTTTGTGTTTCAGGCCTGAGGTTGGAGGCAGGAGGCAGGGAGGGACGCTGGGCCGAGGCCTCGTCTCCTGGAGGCTCTGACCCCACTGGTGCAGGGTGGCGTGTGGGCAGGGGCACCTCGGGAGGGGAGGTTTGACGTGGAGCACGGGAGCCGCTTTGGGTGGGAAGACCGAGGCCTGAGGGGCACTCAGGACTCTCTCTATCCTCGGGCTCTGTGAGCTAGAGTGGGGAATGGGGGGAGTGGACCGGGAGCCTCTGGGCGGCCGACAATGGGAAGGCCCCTGACCTGGGAGTCTGGGGGCCATCACTGTGGCAGCCCCATGCCCTCTGGGAAGGTCCTCTGCTCTCTGGGTGGGGTCCGTGGGACTGTGTTATGAGCAGGCCCCTGATGGCGGGTGGGGTCCTGTCCCTCCGTTCCTACCCAGCCACGGGTGGCAGTTCTGTCTTCCTCCTGCATCAGCCGACAGCCCCTTCCCAGGAGCTCTGAGTCCGCCTGCTGCTCCGGGGCCGCTGGGGTGAGGACGGGGTGAAGAGGCGCGGCCCTGTCTATACCAGCACCGCCACTGCCCACTGGGGCCCACATCCCGCCCACTGGGACCGACATCCCGCCCACTGGGGCCCACATCCCGCCCACTGGGGCCCACATCCCGCCCACTGGGGCCCACATCCCACCCACGGCGGCCAGGGACAGACGTCCTTCCTGTGTCTTGTGTCCCTTCACCACTACCAGCCCGGCACGTCCTTTGCCCATTCTCACTCCGACACTGACCTGAGATGGGGCTGCCCcacacccgggcacacacccgggcacgcaccTGGGAAGGCCTGGATCCTGTTGGCTGGGAAGAAGTGGGCAGGTGGGCTGTGGAGTGGGCAGTGCTGTTTGCATTGCTGCTGATCAGAGGTGCCTCCTGCTGCTGTGTGAGGAGGCCGGGCCTCCCCGGAGTCTCTACGAGGTGCTCTCAGAGAGATTCGAGGGGCCCCGGGCCTCTGGCTTCTGTGTGGGGTGATGTGGGAGGTTGGGGAATGGAAAAGCCTTCTCCCTCCCCCCATCATTAGGAAAGAAAAACAGTTTCCATGGGGCCAAGtttattttattttatttattattttgaggcagagtctccctctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcggtggtccgatctcagctcactgcaacctccacctcctgggttcacgcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtggctgggattacaggtgcccgccaccacgcccggctaactttttttgtatttttagtagagatggggttttgccatgttggccaggttggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatccatctccttcggcctcccacagcactgggatgacaggtgtgagccaccacccccggccGGTGttaactgattttaaagtgcacgcttgggcggcgttcagcacattgcagtgtcaggcggccctcacctctctctagtcctgaatgtcctcatcaccccaaaaggaaaccctgtctccatcagcactggctcaccaccctttcccaagcctgagagcctccacgactctctggcttggcctgttctggatgtttcgtagaaatgggatcagacactgtgtccctctgagcctccgtcgctcgaggtcctgcctcaggtttcatcccggtgtggtgtgtgctggggcctccttccttcttgtggctgagtGGCGCTCTGTGTGTGGCCAGCCTGTGTGTGGTTTGTGGCTCATCTGTGAGTGGATGCCAGGCTGCTGGGCTGCTGGCCTGCATGTGGTTCGTGGCTCGTCTGTGAGTGGACgctgggctgctgggctgctgggctgctgggctgctgggcGCAGTGCGTGAGATGCTGTGGTTGTCCATGCACCGGCTCTTGTTGGACAGAGGTTTTTGTGGTGCCTGGACGTGTACCCAGGAGTggtgttgtgggaggtgttgtgggtggtgctgtgggCGTTGTGGCCTCGGGCGGGATGGCGTTTGGTTCACTGCGTTTCCCGGCCGGCGTCTCCTTCTGTCATGAAATGCTCAGTGCCCACGCACGGTCCATACTGGGGTTTGGTACCGTCCACCTACGGATTAAAAACGTTCACGGATATCTGCTTTCAAAACACCCAGGCCGGTCTTGTCGGCAGAGCCGGTCTCAGGCCACCTCCTCTTTTCCGAGGTAGGTGAGACTCTGGGAAGGGAAGGAGCGAAGGAGGCAGGCTTGGAGCCTTGACCACAGGGAGGAGGGGAACCTGCTCCTGGATGCGCCGGAGCCCAGCCCGGCTTGTGGAACGAGGCTGCAGGAGCCTGAGATCGGGGACTGCCGGGCCTGCGCCACGGAGGGTCCCCAGGGGGACGGGACAGCCTTCCTGCCTCTTCCAGCCCCTGGCGCTCAGCTTTGCCTTAGCTGTGGCCTCATAACTCCAGCCTCTGCCTTGGTCGTCATGGCCGTGTCTTCTGACTttggatttagggtccgtcttgatccggtatgaccgcatctcaatgacgtcggcaaggaccctgtttccaggcaaggcagctttttgaTATTTGAGTGGTCGGAGGCACTGTTTAGCCACCTTGCTGCCTCCTCGTAGGACTGAAGGGCATTTTTCCCTTGAGCAGGAGACTCCACACACGCGGACACTGACGTTGAGCCGCAGGGCTGGTCACTGTCCCCGTCCCGTGGCACCGCACGCCAGGGCCCGGCACCTTCTGCCGTGGGTCACGTGGCCTTGGGTCCGGCCCCTGCCAGAGGCTGGGGCCCCAGGGACCCCTCTGGGCTAGAAGGTGCTGCTGACACAGGCGTTTTTAGATAAGCAGGAAGCTCCTGAGAGGAAGCTTTATTTTTACTTTGTTCCGGCCTCTGTGGTTTTTGGAGATGGCCTTTAAAGATTTGTTTTCGATTTTATCTTTAAAGAAGATGCAGGAAAGCCCATGGGTCAGGCTCCAGAAGAAATATCCGGGAGGAAGGCCCTGAGCCTGGGACGGCGGGGCCAGGAGGAGGCCCCTGAGCCTGGGAGTGTAGGGCAGGGGCTGCAGGGATCCCAGGAGGAGGCGCTCCCGGCCCCGCATGGCCCTGTGTCTGCAGTCCCTGCCTGGGCCTGTGGGCCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTCCTGGGGCAGGGCTCACAGAGCCTCACTCCCCAAAACCCCAGCCTGTGTCCCCGAAGGGCCCCCTCTCCTTAGAGGGGTTTAGTCCCACCAGGTGGGTAAAGTTGGCCTGCGTTGCTGGGCTGGTTTCAAGGGAGGGCTCTGCCCACCATCATCACGGGTCAGGAAAGCCCTGCCGAGCCCTCTGTCCTTCGACTTCTGGCCCAGCGAGGCACCTGGAGCACCCCGTGGCTGTGTTGAACGTCACAGAGGCTGCCGGGCACGTGGGGACGGGGCCCGCTGGGAACAGGTGTGGGGGCCCCAGCTCTGACCAGCGGGTGCCTGGGAGGGGGGTTCTCCTTGGACAAGAGCTGCCTCCAGCCCCTTGGTCCAGAACCCCTTGTGCCACCCCGGCACCCTCCGCCCTGTGAGTTTTTTCCCTCTGGGAGACGTTTACTTTCCTGGCAGTTGGCCAGCGTGGCACTCACAGAAAAGGCCAGGGCAGCCCCTCAGCCCCTTTCCTGAGGCCACACCGCCCTGAGAGCAGGGTGCGTGCCCTCAGCAGAAGCAAGGACCAGGGCCTCTCCTCCCGGCTGGGGCCCGGGATTCTGAGACCCATCTCTAAGGCCAGGGCAGGGCCGGGGCGGGGGACGTTTGTTAAATTTTTAGGAAAAAAAAGCAAAATCAACACAGAAACAAATGGATGAACCTGCCAATGGGTGGGGCCTGTGGACTCTGCCCCGGCCCTGCTCAGGGCCCTGTGGCCTCAGCTCCTTCCCTGGTGAGACACCCACCCTGCCCCATGCCACCAGTGGTATGACGCAggggaggagcaagacggggaggggcttggggggaggggcgtgggggggtggagtgtgaggggggagggggtatgaggcaggggaggagcatgagggtggggagggggtggggtggTCAGGGTGTAGGGTGAaggcgtgagccacagtgcccggcctctctcttttttttagagctgggtctcactctgctgtccaggctgaagtacaggtaagatcgtggctcgctgtgctcaagtgatcctcctggcctagcctcccaaagtgctgggacaacaggtgtgagccactgcgcccCCCTCCAGGTTTAGCTGTGGGATGTTTGGGCTTTGAAAGGAGCTGATCTGACGGAGCCAGGAGGGCTGGCTGCAGGACAGAGACAGGACGGCTGTCACAGCAGCCTCTGCCCCCAGCCGGTGCCCTGTCCTCGCCGTCTCTGTCCAGGAGGTCAGAGCAGTAGCACCCGCCCCGCCCCGTCCACCCTGTGGATCCTCAGCCCATCCGccaccccgccccgccccgctccgccccATCCACCCTGTGGCAGAGGCTTTTCATGGCAGCTCCGAGAACAGGAGGACAGTCACCTCCAGCATTTGCTCTGAGTCTGTTCCCTGGCGAGGTGAGGCCCCAGCTGTTTTAGCGCTCATAAAAATTTACGGCCATCACAAGGGAGCTCAGCTGGGTGGATCACGGTGTCGGGGCGGCGCCCCTGTGAGCTACCTTTTGTGAGCCGCTCCGGACACTTTGGCTCCGGGCTGGCATCTCCTGCCACCCTCATGAGAGCAGTGGCTGCAGCCCCCGCCTCTTGGGCTGGCCCTGTCATGGCAGCAAGGGCTCTGCGTGTGTACGGCCGCCCCCTGCAAGTGTGCTTGTTAACGGGGACTGTGAGGAACTGTGGGGGACTCAGGGCACGGGGAACCGGGGTCGGGCTGAACATTACTCCCTACTCTGAAAGGACAGCGTTGGGACAATGTGGCCAGGCTGCGTGAGGCTGAGTGGGGCAGCATGGCCAGGAGGGGCGAGGGGAGGGGGTGCGAGGCAGGAGGCTGGAAGTAGGGAGAAGGGGTGTTCCACTCACCATCACCCATCCCACCAATCTCGCTCACAAATCCCTGTAGTCTGCAGTGGCTGCCTCTTTATTCCTGGAACAGTGGCTTGGGTTGGGGTCTGCGTCTTGGATGGGGGAGAGCAGGGGGCTCATGCCCGGGAGCCCATGGACAAAGGCACCTGCTCCATGGTAGAGAAGGTTCTGCCCCAGCAAGGGGGCCGTCGAGCGGACAGCCCAGGGCAGCCACATGGGGAGGCTGGGTTGGGGACAGCAGCCCCGGCGCCTCTCCCGGAGAAGCAGCCTCCCCAAGCTGTGCCTGAGCCGAGGGCACCGTCCAGGTCATCTCAGCCAGAGCCTTGGCCGGGTCTAGGGGAGGGGTCACGCCAACGTGATGACCTCCTGGCAGCTGTGTGACTTGAAGGTTTTCAAGCAAAGGCTGAATAGCCCGGAGAACATCCACACACCCAGGCCCAGGGTCAGCCATTTCGGCAACTTGCCCATATGTGTTTTACACGTTACGCACATGCCTTTGTGTTTTCTGCCCACCGTTTTGAAGAAAGCAGCAGACACTGTGACTGTAAATACTTCAGCGTCTCCCGACGTGGGGACACTCCCATTAGAGAACAAATCCAGTGAATTAGTGAACAGGTGCATGCATTCAAACACGAATCTGTgctggccgtggtggctcacgcctgtaatcctagcactttgggagtctgaggtgggtggatcacttgaggtcaggagttggaggccagcctggccaacatggcaaaaccccgtcttactaaaaatacaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcgcaggtctgtaatcccacctactcgggaggctgaggcaagagaatcgcttgaacctgcaaggtggaggttgcagtgagctgaggtcatgccattgcactccagcctgggcaacaagagtgaaactttgtctcaaaaaaaaaaTTaatttaacaagagaagtgcaagacttgtacactggaactacactggaaagaaagaaaggtctaaataaatgcaaagacatccatgttcatggataggaaatcttaatatagctaagatgagaatacttcccaaattgatctacagattcaacacaatccgtatcagaatcccagctgatttttgtgtgtgcagaaatggacaaggtgactgtaacgttcatatcaaattgcaagagatggcagagagccaaaatcatcttgaaaaggaacaaagttggagaattcaaatttccCACTGAGGGATAGTGGCTCGCGGGGCCTGTGTACCAGCCTGGTTGTCTTGGCAGAAGTTTGGCATTTTGATACGCCTGATGCTTTCCTGTGCCGTCTGCCTCATTCCTCACTCCTTGAGTTTCCTGTGGGCTGGGGTTGAGGGGGTTCAGCCCAGTCTCCACCCAGCACCCTCAGCCAGCTCGTCTGTGCCGTCTGCCTCATTCCTCACTCCTTGAGTTTCCCGTGGGCTGGGAGTTCAGCCCACAGTCTCCACCCAGCACCCTCAGCCGGCTCCTCTGTTGGGTGCTGTGTCTGCGTCTCTGCATTGTTCCACCGACACCACAGCTGCACTTGTCCCTGTGATGGGCCCAGGCTGGGCTCCTCTTGCCCTGTGGTCTCCGATTCCTATTACCTGTCACCAAACAGTTCGCCCCCTTGGTGGTCCTTGCCTGAGTCACCATGGGTAGCAAAATGGTTTCTTCTAGAACTTTTGTGGCCGTATTATTACAGACTTGTCTTTAGTAGGGGCAAAATCCCATCCTCACGTCCCTCACCAAATTAAATGGCTGTCCAGACTCCATGTGGACTGTGACCCTGGGCCTGTGGGACCAGACTGGCCTGGGGAATGGGCATGACTCGTGTTGTGGAGGGAGGTGGGGAGTGGAAGAGAGGATGCCCTTCCATGTGTGGCCCGCCCTGCCCTGCCCTCCCCACACAAACTCCCTGGTTTCTGCCTGTGCCAAGCCATGAGCCTCCAGGAGGGCCTGGACTGGGGGAAACCAGTCTGGGGGCTGCAGCCCCCTCAGGCCCAGCTTCAGAGGACCCCACAAAGTGATGGGCCTGAAGGGGAGGGGGAGGGCATCTGCCTGCTCTGCAGACCCCAGGCCAGGCCAGGGGCTGGGCCAGACACAGGGGCTGCTTCTGGGCATGACCCCCCCCCCCGACCCCCCGCCCAAGTGAGGTGGCTGTGTGACCTTCGTGCTGGGCGTTTGTCTGGGACACAGAGCTGTGGCCTCCCCCACTGTGCAGCGATGGCCGACCTGTCTCTTGAGACCGTCTGTCCCCTTCTGAGCCCCTGGGAATAGTGGGGTGAGTTACCAGCCACACAGCTGCATGGCTGGACACTTCTCCCCACACCTCAGCCTGAGGCCCTGTGCTGGAGCACCGAGGATCATCTGGGCGGGAGCTGCCTGCGGCCTGTGGGTGCCTAGCTGTGCATCTCTGGGACCTGGAGGGAAGGATAGCTCAGAAGGGGCTTTTCAGGGGTGACCATGTAAGGCAAATTAAGGAAAGAGGGTGAACAGGGAACACTCGAAGATGAGAGATGCCTTTTCTCTTTGAGCATGTGTGAGAACATGCTAGGGTGGTCTGGAAGGTCTGTAATGGGGGTGGTGCTGGGTATTGCCCTATTGGGGGTGCAGCCTCCGCTTCACAGGGCTCTGCACCAACAGGCCCAGGTCCTCGTGGGGCCTTTGCTTGGGCAGCTATGGGCACAGTAGCCACATGTAGGGGGGCCTCCCCAAATGGAGCCTGCAGGGTTTGCAGTGGTGAGTCCTCAACCGCTAACAtaaaatgcacatattttaggttataactggatgagttttaacaaatgtgacaccagtaacccacagctcggtcaagacagaacactccttggtcaagacagaacaacaccctgaacattcctcatgcctctccccaggtaaccccccccacagagggaaccgttgtcctcatgtgtgtttcaggataggttagtttctccaattctgaaacttggtgtaaaCTTTCACTCCGTCAGTGCCTTTGGCGGCATCCATGTTGCTttcttttttcttgccttattactctggctagcaagtctagtgtgatatggaatagaaacagtgggagtggctgtccttgtcctgtgcttgatcttacagtgaagctttcggtttttccccattaaatagtatgagggctatggattctgtagatgccttttattaggctgaagaagtttccttctcttcttaatttgctgagtttctattatgaatagtgttgaattttgtctaatgttttttcctgtatctatcagagatacaatcatatggtttttcttagtgttttaattggttgatttgctttttgtttttgttttttctttttttgatggagtttcacaatcgttgcccaggctggagtacagtggcatgatcttcgcttactgcagcctccacctcctgtgttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggtgcttgccaccatgaccggctcattttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtcacaaactcctcacctcaagtgatccacctgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagatgtgagccaccgtgcctggctgattggttttcagattgaaccaaccttgcattcctcatcatggaatataatccacagtccagttgagcatggtgtctaattctttttacatatttctgatattaccaatttgctaatatcttgctgaggttttgttttctgtctatattcatgaggtatattggtctgcggtttggctttgttttctttctttctttttttttttgagacaagagtcttgctctgtcgcccaggccagagtgcagtggtgagatctcagctcactgcaatgtccatctcctgggttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcccgggtagctgggaatataggcgtctgccaacatgcctggctaattttttctatttttagtagagacggggtttcaccatgttagccagggtggtctcgatctcctgacctcatgatccacctgcctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccactgtgcttggACTCtttttttttttttttttttttttttttttgagacagtttcactctgtcactcatgctgggagtgtagtggtgtgatcttggctcactgcaacctctgcctcctgggttcaaatgattcttgtgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggattacaggtgcacaccaccacacctggctcattttttgtttttagcagagacaaggttttgccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctggcctcaagtgatctacccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgaaccactgtgtccggcctgtggttttttcttttcttttcttttcttttctttttttttttttttgagatggagtctcgctctgtcacccaggttggagtgcagtggtgtgatctcggttcactgcaacctccgcctcccggtttgagtgactctcctgactcagcctctcaggtagctgggactacaggtgtccaccaccacgcctagctaattttttgtatttttagtagagacggggtttcactgtgttagctaggatggtgtcaatctcctgacctcatgatccgcctgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattatagacgtgagccactgcacccctctggttttcttttcttgtactgtctttttctggttttagtattacggtaatgctggcctgatgaaacacactgggaagtgtttcctcctcttctgttttttggaagaggttgtgtagaattggtgttatttcttttattaaggtttggtggattcagtcaaaccatctttgcttggacgtttacttttatttatttttcttttctttttttttttttttgagacagagtttcgctcttgttgcctaggctggagtgcaatggcatgatctgggctcaccacaacctccacctcccaggttcaagtgattctcctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctggaattacaggcatacgccaccatgcccggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggttctccatgttggtcaggctggtcttgaactcccaacctcaggtaatccacctgccttggcctcccacagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcgtccagccggatgcttccttttcatatctttacagatttaatttctttaatagctgaagggctgttcgttatcagttacattttgggtgagtttttgttgtggtttttaaggaattggtccatttcttctaagttataaaatttACATTCCTAGAGGGGAGTTGTTTGTGCTTTTGACTTTGTGTTTTGAGCAGCCCTGAGACCAAAGATGAGTCTTGACTGAGCGTCTGAGGGGCAGCTGGGCCCCGAGGCTGATGGGAAGAGCCAGACGAGGCCTGGGAAGATGGATCCGTCCCAGTGTGGCCGCGCGGCTGTCAGGAGGGCACGGGGACTGGGCGCGGCCGTCAGGAAGGTTCGGGGACTgggctgctgtagcaaactcgggggcttaaagcaacagaaacccacccccactgtcctggaggccagaagtctgagatcaaggcttcggcagggctgtgttcccactggagactccaggggagggtcctcctgccctttccagctcccaggggcttcaggtgttcctcggcttgtggccacgttgctcgtctctgcctctgacttcacttgaccacgtcctctgtctgtgttttctcctcgcctgtctcttagaaggacccctcccactggatttagggcccaccgtactccaggacgatctcgtctcaaagccctcaacctactgatgtctgtagagacccttttccaaatactgtcacgtccacaggttctggggcgaggacgtgggtgtctctttttggggttccgcattctcctactaTTACGGTCTCTAGGCCTCCGGGCCAGCCCCTCTGCTGCCTGGGTCTGTGGGTGGCTCCGGCCCCACTCTGGCCCTGCCCAGTTATGGGTGTGCACGGCCCGACCAGAGAAGGGGTACCCCCTGCCCCCAGTGTGGACCCACAGACCCTGTAGAGGGGGGAGAAGGCAGCTCTCCAGCCCACGGGGGCTTTGCTCTTCTCAGCTCGGGGGTCGTGGGATGGGGAGGTCAGCAGAGCCGGCAAGTTATTCACAAGGTGCTTGGTGTCTGGTTCCCACCCTGTGGGCCTGAGGACGAAGCAGGGCATGTTCACCGTCACCATCAGGTCATTCCCTTACTGCCACCGAGTGGCCGGGGCTGCAACTTGGCGGTGGGGTCCCCATTGCGGTACCGAGAGAGGGCTGAGGGTGCTGGTCACGCACTGCCCTGTGCTGAGTGGACGTGGCCAGGGCATGTGGACCAGCTGGTTTTCGGCGCTGCCTGCAGGGCGATGGACTCAGCACAGTCCCCACTGTGAACTGGGCACCCGGGGTTGAGGGGATGCCTGGGAGACCCTGGGCACTCAGGTCAGGGGGACGTCCAGGAAACGCTGCCAGCTGTGCTGCCCTGCAGAGTGGGAGGCTGGGTCCATGTGTGGGCACTTTGTTCTGAGCAGCCTGGATCAGAGGCCTGGGCTCACACTGTCTACACAGCTGTGCTGCCTGAGCCCTGACAGGTGACAGTGATGGGCCAGCTGTCCCTCCAGGGCCCCAGGGAAGGGCGTGGGGAGGCAACCCCGAGCTGTGGGTTTAACCCTCACCTGCCTGCACCCCTGCTCCCTGTGGAGGGGCAGCCTGGCCTCTCCCGTGTCCCCAGGTGGGGCGCGGTCTCCTTGCCCTCTCGTTGTTTCCCCCTCCCCCTGCCAACCTGCCCCCAGGGAAGATGAGTCTCATTGACATCCTGCTCCCAGGAGAGCCAGAGGCCCGGCCCCGAAAGGCAGATGCCTCAAGCCCAGGGACGTGGCGTCCTGGTGTGGTCGGGCTGAGGAGCCCTGGGGGCTGTGTGGCCCCCTCCTTGCTGCAGCTCTGCTTCTGGCTGAGATCActgggctgggctgggctgggGAGGGTCCACCCCGAGGAGGTGTGGAGCCCCTGTGAGGTGGCCACTGCCAGCCCTGGGATAGGAGAAGGGTGAGGACTCAAGGATGTGTGGATGGGTCCAATCGGCTGCCACCACCTGGAGGCCCCCAGGCTTTGCCGCTACCCCAGAGCCCTCAGGACAACAGAGGCCTCGAACGCGTCCTGCCAGCCAGGAGCCTGGTCCCCAGCACCTGGCTCCATGGCCCCCGGAAGGCAGGGGCTCCGTAGTTGTTTGTGGCATGAATACACGGGCCTCCCACTGTGGGGGCTTCTGGGGGGCCCTGCTGCAGCTCCGCATAGGGGGCTGGGGGCTGCCGTGGACAGCGTCCCCCTAAGGGGGTGGTGGACACTGGGCGTGGAGGGTCGCGGGGGGCAGGGCAGCCTGAGGATGGTCAGAGTGATGCCCTGGATGAGGTGTCCCCACCCCTGCCCTGGATGAGGTGACCCCACCCCCCCCAGAGGCCGGACCTTCCTCCGAAAGAGGCTTTGAGCTTCAGAAAGAGAGTTGCTCCCCAGGCATCCTGTGGCTGCTGGAAGCTCACGTTTCCCCTTGGGAAAGAAAAGCCCTGAGCCCCTTTCTCAGGTGGGCATTTGAGGTCTTGGGCCTGGTGGCTCTTGCAGAAGCCAGGCCCAGCAGCAGGGGCTGGAGACGAAAAGGCTCAGCCAGGCCGCTCCGTGCAGGGGCCGCTCCGTGCAGGGGCCGCTCTGTGCAGCGGCTGGTTCAGGGACGTGGCTGGGGTGTGGTCACCTCCGGGGTTAAGAGCAACCGCCGGGCAGAGGCTCAGCTCCACACGCCTCACTCCTATTTCCAAAATACCTTTCCATTCACACAATTGACAACACTGATGTTAGCAGGAAGTGTCGCACCCGCGGCTGTGTACTTATGTGTGCTGTCATCTGGTGCGTGCACGTGTTTCCACACAGGTGCTCTGTGTGTCCCCCTGGCCTGAGAGGGGTGTCACCGGTGCCTCTGTGTCCTGGTGCCCCTAGCCACGCTCCCTCCTCTTCCCTCCCAGGGAACATGGGGCTTCTGTGCCTGGGAAATAGCCACAAACCACGATGCCAGCTCCCGTCGCTTGGGGATCTTCTCGCAGGTTCCTGCATGGGGCTGCCCAGGCCCTACCTACCAGCCCCCGTTATCCCTCGAACTCTCAGACTCACTTGGACCAGGGATGGCAGGATGGGACCAGAGACCTGTCCACTCAGCACCTCAGGCAGGTGAAGGAAAAAAGAACCACTCCTGCTATTGCATTTCGGGAGACTGGTGCCCTCACGAGCGTGGGTGGCCTCGGGTGCCCCGACCTGCTGCCGCAGCCTCGAGCCCGGGCAGAGCCTTCCTCCCGGGAGGGGCCTGTGCTTTTCTCGGTGTCCGCCGCGTCTCGGCCTCCCCAGCGTCCCCATGAGTGTGTGAAGGGGGCGCCCACTGGCTTCTCTCGGGGTGTGGGGCTTGCAGAGGCCCAGCCCAACCTTCAGCTTTGGGGCCTGACCCTGGACTGCAGGTTCTCACCTGGGCCGTCGGTTTTGACTCTGGGCCACAGGACCTCACCCTGGGCTGGGGAACTCTGGGCTGTGGGTTCTGACCTGGGCTTCGGGACCTGACCCTGGGCCTCGGGTAGCGCTGCCGCAGGAGGCTGAGGGGGTGGTGGGGCGGTTGACTGAGGAGGGGCCTCCACGTGCTCCTCTCGGTTGGACCCGGGTCTGTGGGGCTCCTGGGCCTGCAGGCGCCGCCTCCTACTCCTGCTGGGGCCCCCGTCTCCTGGGCCTGCAGCAACCCAGGGCTGTGTTGTGTCTCCAGGCAACGGTGAGGTGTCCCCTCCCAGCTCTGCGGAAGTGAGTCTCGGTGTCTTGGAGATGTGTTCTCTGGAGGCTCCGGGTGACGATGCTTCCTGCCCCTTCTGGTTCCCGGCGGCTGGACGCCCCAGGGTGGGTGGATCActctgtctccgtgttcacgcagccttgttcccttgctgtgtatcatcgtccctggctttacgaagccgtcactgggtctgggccatcctcaatccaggatgacctgatctcaaggccttccccttaatcacaactgcagagaccctagttccaaataggtcccgttctgagattccgggtggccgtgaatttagggagacagcattcagcccatTGTCCTGGGGTCAAGGCCGACCCTCAGACCCTCCTCGGGGGAGCTGACACCCAGTGAGGGGTCAGACAACAGGAAGGGCAGGACTGGCCACGCCTGCCCCAAAGGCACCGTGGACAGATGGGCGGGTGGCTGGGGAGGCCCCTGGCTGGGGTGACAGTGACCGAGTGGGGGATGCCCCTGGGCCGGGGGTGCGTTGGCTGGGGCACCCCCTGAGCTGTGTCCTGTGCACAGCTGTGGGCTGTGCCATCCACCTCCACCAGACAGGGCTGTGAAAGGGCAGGGCAGGCAGACGGGCTGGGGCTGCAGCCTGCAGCTGTGCGGCACACAATGGGGCCGGCCCTGGAGGGGACACGGGTCCTGATCTGGCTGATGATGCCGCGTATCTTTTGCATGGAGAAGAACTGTGAGTGTGGACATCGTGTGGGGAGACGAGGCCACCTGATGGAGAGCCTGGAGCCCGCCCTTTAAGGGAACAAGGCGCTTTTTTCACCCTTTTTTTCGTGTGTCTCAGACAGCTGGCTCCTTAAATATTAATCAGGGTCATTGAGATGCAAATGCGTGCCCACCACAGAAGGCCCCGCAGCTGCAGGGCTGGCACTGAACATCCTGGTGGCCCAGATGCAGCCCTGACCAGAGCCAGCGGCGAAGACCACCTTCCCTGAGGACAAACGGGCGCCGGCCCCTCGACAGGAGCAAGGGTGGCGtgggccttgctgggtcttgctgggtcttgctggCCGTGGCTTTCCTGGCTTTCACTGCCCTTAAAACGAGGTGTCCTGGggccgggcgtggtggctcacgcctgtagtcccagcactttgggaggccgaggtgggtggatcatgaggtcaggagattgagagcatcctggctaacacggtgaaaccccgtctctactaaaagtacaaaaaattagctgggtgtggtggcgggcgcctgtagtcccagctaccccggaagctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacctgggaggtggagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgcgccactgcactccagcctgggcgacagagcgatactccgtcgcaaaaaaaaaaaacaaaaaacaaGGTTTCCTGGACAGGCACTCGCCAGGGCGCTCTCGAAGCCGTGGGGCTGGGGGAAGGCGCCGTGTGTCCGGCCTGTGGTGGGTTCAGAGGCTGAGTTTAGAAAAGTCCGGCCTGGGAAGCACATCACTGGGTGGACACGGTGACCTGGATGCAGGGGGGCGGCTGTGCTCGGGACACGGTGACCTGGATGCAGGGGGGCGGGGTGGCTGTGCTCAGGCTGCCCGGGGTCGACCATCAGCAGAAACAAAATAGGATGGAAGAGGCAGAGAGGCCAGGAGCCACAATGGCCCCGCCCGGAGCCGGGTCTCCTCCCGCTTCCTTAGCACACATGTTAGAGGACAAACCGCAGCTCAGCTCTTCATAATAAACACAGTGGAAGCTTCAGGGACTCAGAAGTGCAGCCCAggccgggcgtagtggctcacgcctgtaatcctaccactttgggaggccgaggcaggtggattactagatcatgagtttgagaccagcctggccaacatggtgaaaccccatctctactaaaaatacaaaaattagccgggcgtggtggcgggcgcctgtattcccagctactctggaggctgtgacaggagaatcacttgaacccgggaggcggaggctgtggtgagcccagatggcgccactgcactccagcctgggtgacagagtgagactccgtctcaaaacaaCAGCACAACACCCGGAACTGGAGGCTCTCACACGCCACAGTTAGAGAGATTTTCTGATCATAATAGTTTCCGCGTGGATTGGAACTCACGCAAAGCAGCACACACAGTGGACAGCGAGCTCCAACATGTCCACGGGTGAACATCAGCGTGGCCACCACCAGGTCCAGAGCACAGTAGACCCTGTGCCGCCAGTGTCCGTCGCCTTCCACACGTGGCCGCAGTTCTGTGCATGGGGCCGCCCGCCATCCTGCCGCCTCTGACCTGGGCTGTGGGCTCGTGACACGTGTCTGAGCTTTCCAGTCGTGGCCGTGACGCTCTGTGCGGAGGCTCCGTCCGCGTGCTGCCTCCGTCCCCTCTGCCCTGGACGGCCACTCACTACCTTTGTCTCTCACCCTGGGGGTTTCATGACCCCGGAGCCTCCACGTCCTGGTACAGAGCCTGCCTCTCCGGGACTGGGCTTCGGCCGAGCAGACACCGCCTAGCTGCTCTTTGACCAGCGTTCTCTGCTCTGCGTCTGGCTGGCATCGGCGGCTTGCTGAGTCCAGCCTGGCATCTCGCTGGCATCGGCGGCTCGCTGGGTCCAGCCTGGCGCTGACACGTTTCTGTGCTCATTTCATTTTACAAATCAACTCCCCAAGGTGAGGTGggctcgtgccagcaggtgggagccggtcgtgcacgtctgcccagctccgtgctgagtgaggacgtgttgggggcttgaatcggagatgggggcgggcacggtgtttagatcacagaaattcaaaaccacataaatcagggctttatccagagagccggGCATGATTTCCAAACACAAAATGCACCCATTTAAATGTAACCGACGGTTTCTGACAAGGGCACCCGGCACCACAGCTGAGATTCAGAACATTCCTCTCCCAGATCTCCCTGCGTTCCGGCCCCGGCAACATGGGCCTGCGTCTGTCACTGGAGTTGGGCCGCGGTCCTCCCTGCAGTTCCGCGAGTGGAGCTGCGCCCTGTGAGCTCTTTCGTCTGTGTTCTTTAGCTGAGCGTGGTGCCTTGGAGGGTCCGACGCTGTGCGTATCAACAGCCGGATGTGCCTGTTTCTGAGGACGATGGCTCCAAGATGACCCGgttcacccgtcctcctgctgacggacaccggcaccaccccgggtcctggctgcagtaaatcaacccgctataaacgctgcttacacgtccttgtgctttcatgtctctcgggcagatacctaggagtggagtggctgcttcctgaggaagttcacgcttcatgtttccagaactgacacttctccagagtggctgCCTCCTCCCGTCCTGGTGGGCGTATGAGGCTTctcctcctccattttctggaagagcttggatagggcagtgttatttctctaccgagtattgcatggaactcgccagtgaacacatcttggcctcaagttttctttgtggaaaattttaaattacaaattcaatttcttttttctttttttgagatggagcctcactctgtcaccgaggctagagtgcaatggtgcgatctccgctcactgcaacctctgcttcccgggtccaagtgattctcctgccacagcctcccgagtacctgggattacaggtgtgcaccatcatgggggctagtttttgtatttttggtagagacgggatttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctgtcctcaggtgatccacctgcctgggcctcctaaaatgctgggatgacaggcgtgagccactgcgcccggcccaaattcagtttcttcaattattatgggactcttgggctttctttcttcgtcggctgtagggagaggattagggtttgggctagcgttcgttttagtaatctgtgcctttcacggagtgtttctcatttaatgtagggtgctgagttgattagaataaagttgttcataatattaccttattattcctgtagcatctctgtggatttgtggtgatatcttttcttcttgatattggctatttgtattttctcacctttttgctagatcattgcagcttggggttcactgacgttgttCTGTAATGGATCCCGGTTTCCTGTAAACCCACGTATGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGCGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGCGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGGGTCCTGGTTTCCTGTAAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGGGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTATGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGGGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTATGTAATGTGACCCGGTTTCCTGTAAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGTGTCGCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGCGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGCGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGGGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGTGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGGGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGTGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGGGTCCTGGTTTCCTGTAAAGCTGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGTGTCCCGGTTTCCTGTAAACCCGTGTGTGTCCCGTGTCTGTAATGTGTCGCGGTTTCCTGTAAACCCCTGTGTGTCCCATATCATCTGGACTAGGTACCTTCTCCCAGCGGCCCGGGGTGCTGACCTGGCTCAGTGCCTCTTCTTTCCTTTGCTGAGTGTTCTTTCCTCTTTTTTGTTGTTCAGATGAGAGTCTGTTGATGTTCCTCCAGCATGTCCACATGGCTGCGGGTGAAGGGCTTCACAGTAGCCCACCGTGGGCAGGTGTTTAAGGAACAACTTCCAGGTTAGGAAAAAGATGAGGCAGAGGAGATGGCCCCACCTGCCACCCAAGAGAAAAAGAGGCTCAGGGAGGGGAGGAAAGGATGTTGCGGCCCGCCATCTGTCTGCACACCAACCGTCAGAGCTGACGGAAGCTTTCGCCAACTTGCTTCCAGCAATGGGCCAACGACAATCAAGGCGGCTATGACGGCCAGTCCAGGGCTGGTTTGAAAGCTGTAACAGTTTGGACAGTGTGGTATGACCTGGGCAGGTATAGATCACACTGGGTCAGGTGTAAACCCTAGAACGGTGAGCCACCAACCCAGACTCAGCGGGTCAGCTGCGGCCCCTGGCCAGGCGGCCCAGGCAAAGTAAGGTGGCCGCAGCCCTGCAGGGAGGGTGGCACTGTCCGCAAACCCTCCCGGTGCCCCGGGTTCCCCAATGCGCTCAGACCTGGGGGTGGGCACGGAGGCCCCCCAGCCTTCCCCTGCCTAGTGCCTGGGGTGCTTCTTCCCAGCGCCTGGAGGTTTCCATCCCTCCCGCACACAGCGCTTGGAGCAAGATGGGAGGGAGGTGCCTGCTTGCTGCCTCCTGCTGGTGTGTGGGAGCCCAGGTGAACACTGGGTGGTGCGGAAAGCCACCAGCGTGATGTGGGAAGGCCATTTGCTAAGCGCCAGGTGGGCCCGGGTGTGGGCTGGGTGGGCAGCCTGGCTCGCGGCGTAAGGGGCAAGCTATCCAGGCAGCAGTGGGCTGAGAATTGCCGGCATCACCTGTCATTTGCTCGCGTGGTCCTCAGTGAATCAAAGTTTGCATGTCCGTGACTGCGGCCATCATCAGAGCTTGTGGGACCACTGGTGGCTCCGTACGGCACTTTCGGGTTAACCAGCATCCAGGTGCACTGAGCCTTGGTCTTAAGCGGCTCCAGCCCCATGCACGCCACAGAGAAGGAGTGAAGCGCGTTCCCTGCCCGGCATCCTGAGCCCCACTGGACCTTCTGGCAGGGTGAGGGTCTGGGCCCTGAGGCAGGGAGGCCCAGGGTCTCAGGACGCTTAAGACACTCTGCTTTGCTTTGCTGTAtttcaaaacattgaggtgaagttgacatttacataaaattaaccacttaaaggtcagcagtgtggtgcacgtaacacattggccacacgcacaaccagcatctctgcctaattccagatattttcatcacccgccagagaaccttctggacctgtgagccgtcatgcccgctctccctgttcctgccagcagccccgagagccgtccaccttctccctgcccagcgtctctgtgggtttccctgttctggacattccagagacggcatcgcaggaccggtgccctctgtgtctggcgggttcactgggcatcaggttctcaaggctcatctgagcgtcggggcctcgctcctctttgcggctgcgtaatgctcATGGGTGAGCACACCTGGTCTGTTCATCTGGGCTGTCCCCACCTCTGGGCTGCTGCAAACGTTCCGGTGCAAGCACACCCAGGTCCCCGTTTCCCGCTCTCCCGGGTCTACATGCAGATGTGGAGTTGCGGGGTCACGTGGTTCCCGTTTCTAGCTCTCCCAGGTCTACGTGCAGACGTGGAGTTGCGGGGTCACGTGGTCCCCGTTTCTAGCTCTCCCGGGTCTCCGTGCAGACGTGGAGTTGCGGGGTCACGTGGTCGccgtttctagctctcccgggtctacgtgcagacgtggagttgcggggtcatgtggtcatccgtctacactgaacatttcgaggaacccccagacagtctccacgtggccacatcattCtgatgcatggcagacgagcccgaaagaggagcttagtcccagagggttcttggctttgcccaggaaagaattcaaggtcgagccagaggtggaaggaaacagctttacttcagaggtggggttacagctgtggctgctcccgcagggcagggcttccacagacagcagcccggggcagctctgcagtctcacttatagccacAGtttttttttttaaagacagaatattactctattgcccaggctggagtgcagtggtacggtctcagctcactgcaacatctgcctcccgggttcaagcgattcttctgcctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggtgcctgccacgccaggctaatttttgtatttttggcacagacggggtttcactatgttggccaggctggtctcaaactcctgacttcaggtgatccgcctgccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccactgtacccggccagaaatgtcaaattttgatgaagtccaatttattttctgtgttgttgccggtgctgttgttgtcatatccaagaaaacactgccaaatccaatgtccttaagattttcccaggttttattctgagtcttacagttttagctcttacatttaggtgtttcatcctatgttttttgggttaatttttgtgtatgctgttaggtaaggggccagcttcattcattattttgcatgtggagataaagctttcccagtaccatttgctgaaaaggctgtcctcttcccattgaatggtctcagagcctttgtcggaaggtaccaggccacgtgtgggacaatttcttgggtcattctCATCGGAAGGTACCTGGTTGTTCTCGTTGGAAGGTGCCTGGTTGTTCTTGTCGGAAGACACCTGGTTGTCCTCGTTGGAAGGTACCTGGCTGCGTGTGGGACGATTTCTTGGGTCGTTGTTGTCAGAAGGTACCTGGTTGCATGTGTGGAATGATTTCTCGGGTTGTTCTCATCGGAAGGTACCTGGTTGTTCTCATCGGAAGGTACTGGTTGTTCTCGTTGGAAGGTATGTGGCCGTGTGTGGGATGATTTCTCGGGTTGTTCTCATTGGAAGGTACGTGGCTGCATGTGGGACAATTTCTCGGGTCATTTTCGTCGGAAGGTACCTGGTTGTTCTTGTCGGAAGGTACCTGGTCGTTCTCGTTGGACGGTACCTGGCCGCGTGGGGGATGATTTCTGTGGTTGTTGTTGTCAGAAGGTACCTGGTTGCATGTGTGGAATGATTTCTCGGGTTGTTCTTGTCGGAAGGTACCTAGTTCTCGTCGGAAGGTATGTGGCCGTGTGTGGGATGATTTCTCGGGTTGTTGTCATTGGAAGGTACGTGGCTGCGTGTGGGACGATTTCTCGGGCTGTTCTCGTCAGAGGTACCTGGCCGCATGCGTGGGACGATTTCTCAGGTTGTTCTCATTGGAAGGTACCTGGCCACGTGTGTGGGACGATTTATTGGGTTGTTCTCGTCGGATGGTACTTGGCCACATGTGGGACGATTTCTCTGGCCGTTCTCGTCAGAAGGTACCTAGCCGTGTGTAGGACGATTTCTCGGGTTCTTGTCGGACGGTACCTGGCCGCATGTGGGATGATTTCTCGGGTTGTTCTCATCGGACAGTACCTGGCCGTGTGTGTGGGACGATTTCTCGTGTTGTTCTCATTGGGCGGTACCTGGCCGCATGTGGGACGATTTCTCGGGTGGTTACTGTGCCCCGTTTATCTCTAGGTCTCCATGCTGCTGTGATACTGTTTTGACGAGGGAGCTTTCTTTTCTGCCACTGTGGGCCAGCTGCTGCCGTCTGTGGTATTCTTGTGTGTTGCTGATCTGAAGCTCCAAAGCTGCCATTCTCCCAAACCTTCCTGCTCAGATGAGGACCTGGGCAGTCTGAGACCTCCAAGCTGCAGTGAGAATGGCTGAGGGCCTGACCCAGCCAGGGAGGCTGCTCTGGGGACTCCAGGGTGCCTCTCCCTTCCCCCAGGCCCACAGTTGACCCAGCAGACCCACACTGAGGGCCTGGTGCGGGACTGGGGCAGCTTAGTGTCAGGGCGCAGAGCAGGCCCTGGAGAGCCAGGGGGTTGCCGTGTGGGCGCTGGCACTGGTTGCTAGTGTAAAGGCCCCACGGCCCTGACCACACAGGGACCCCAGACGTTTGGGGGAGATGGGCTCAGTGTGGTGAGGCCTTGGGACTATCTGCCAAAGACAGATGAGGTGAGGGGAACCCAGCCTTGGAAGGGTCAGGTGTGACAGACTCTGGGTCTGCAGAGGGTGCAGGCTCCACTCCAGCCGAGGCTGTCACAACCCGACCTCAGGTCACCTGTCCGCCCCAGGTGAGTGGACGTCTCTGGGAACCTGGATCCAGAGACTGGACCCCCACCATTAGGGCTCCTCTGCCTGCCAGCTGAGGGGGTCTCCCTGAGCAGGGCTGGACACTCACGGGTCAGAGCCAAGGGCTCCATGGAGTGGGCCCTCGAGGCCCCCAGCTGGGTCCAGGGGCCCCCCTATTTTTGTGACCTTGGTGGGGTACCCAGAGGTGGTAGCAGACCTGCCTTCCACAGTGACAGGCCCCCGAGGCTGGCCGAGATGGGGAGGGCAGATCACACCATGACTCCCACCCCGAGCACCCCTTCAGATGCCCAGGCCTCCGCCCCCAGGGGACTTCCTGACCACAGGCATCGGCCTGACACGTGTCGGGGCCACTGGCCCCATTGCCCCACACCGGCAGGTGGGACCCTCCGTCACACAGAACACAGGCAGCCGGGGGCTGGGCGTCTCGCACAGACTCTGTGGAGAGTTCAGACGTGAGGGAAGAAGCTGACATGCCCGATGGGAGGGCTGAGGCCCGtgattccgtttatatgaagggtcccgaacagggacccacagaggcatgagatggattccctggggctagaggctctgtctggaagatggaaatgggCTGGATGGAGGGGAGGTGGATGCACGGCCTCGGGAGCGCACTCCACACCACAAACTGTTCGCTTAATGACGGCCCTGGTCCACTTCATGCTGTGTGACTTGACCCCACATGCCCTGTGACCCCACCCCCAGGTCCCCTGGGAAGTCACAGCTGCCATCCCCAACGGAGGATGAGGGTGTCTGCTCCAGGGCTCTTGCAGGCCCTTCCCGTGGTCCCAGGACAGTGCTGCGGAGTCTCTGGGCTGTGGGTCCCATGAACGGGGTGCCCAGTCACTACTGCTGTGGGCTCCTGCCCTGCCCCCCTTGACCAGGACCTGCAGCCCCACTACGGGGTCCCCGGGAGACCAGTGGTGCACAGCTGCCCTGGGACAAGAGGAGCCTGGAGCGGGGTGAAGGAGCCCGGGAGGAGGGGCTGTGGGATTCGGGACCCACTACGGGGAGGACAGCCGCACGGGAGGGTTCCGGGCAGGGGGCATGGAGGGCTGTTGGCTCCTCAGGTCTCCCCCTTGCAGAGGCTGGGCAGGGGCACCCCGTGGCACCAGCCTTTCCCAGGCGATGGGTCCCTCGGGTTCCCACAACTGCCGCTGCCTGAGATGTCCGCCCCTGAGCTGTGCCACAGGGCTGGGCCCCACCAACAGCAGAGTCCCTGGGACAGCCCCCCGGGAAGGGCCGCCCAGGCCCCTGTGGCCGACAGCTCCGCGTGGTCGCTCCGGCAGACTTGCTGGCTCCTGGTGCGTCCCTCTGAGGCCCTGTCTGTCCCTCCACAGACACAGGGCGCCCTGTTTCCCCGGGAGCTGGAACACGGGCCCTCTGTTGGCACCTGGGCTGGCTGTCCCCCCCGGGCAGGCCGAGGGGGGGCTCCACACAGACCCACACTGTGCCTACCGCAGCCGCCCTCCTCGGCCTGAACCACCGTGTTGTCCCCACTGGGGCCCCCCACAGTGGCTCAGCCGTGGGCATCATGGCTCCAGGTGCCGTGGATGGAGGCAGGGGGAAGGGGTGGGTGGGGGAACCGCCCCCCCAGGCTGGGGGAGAGGGGAGGGCCTCTGTCCTATGGTGGGGCCCACTTCTGACTTCTCCCAGGACCCAGCCTCACAGCGTCCTGGGTGGGGGACGTTGCCCCAGAGCTTTGCCTCCTTCCGGCAGGGCTGGCACCCCTGCTCATTCCCATTTACTCCAAGTATTGCCGCAGCAGACACTGGAAGGGTCGCCAGGCAAAGCACCACCCATTCACCTCTCCATCAAGCTCCCGCTCGGTCACCCGCTGCCCCAGCATCAGAGTGTGGGCTGGGGGCACGGCCACCGCCAAGGGGAGGGAGGTACAAGAACTTCTTCATTTAAACAGTGTGTTTTCGAGTAAGCTGGTAAGTGGTATAATAGGAATAGTAGAAGAATATGCCATAGCTATGGCTCAAGAATAGGAATAAGAAAAATGTGCAGTAGACGCTGTTTGTCCGACGATGATGAAAGTGTGCACGGCCGGCTGTCCTCCGATTGAGGGGCCTTGTCAAGGCCTCAGAGGCAGCGAGGTCACAGCCTGGTGGAGGGTCTGGGTGTGCGCTGTGTCCATCTGCACCTCACAGACACCAGTCATGGGGGGATGAAACCGGGCCAAGAACACATGTGTGCACAGGCTGTGTGTGCCTGCATGTGTGGGATGCGTGTAGGCTGTGGCGGGGGTGGAGATGAGGGATAGGACAGAAAATGGCCCATCCAACCCCACATCCTGGCCGGGCGTGTCCAGGTCCCTGTGGGGCGAGGGTTTGGCTGCCCCAGACGTGACAGGGACTTGGCTCTGAGGGTCAGGACCTGGCTGGGAACACACCATTGAAGAGGGAACAGAAACCAGGCCCTGGGACGCTAGAGACCCCAAGAGCTACCTGGCTGGGTCTATGGTCAGGGCTGTAGTGGAGGAAGGTGTCAGGATGGCCATTGTCTCAACTCCTGTGGGCGGCACAGCCCCAGGCTGGGCCTCTGGGAGGAGGGTGGGATGGATGGGAGATCAGAGCCCCTGGCGCCTGGGACAAGGGTTGGCCTGGATGTGGGGCCCCAGGTGGGCAGGGCCTGGGAGCCGCCACAGTATGTGACAACAGACCCCACCCTGGACCCCCGTGCTGGGGGCTGGGTCCCACCGCTCTCCTCTCCACGTCTCTCTTGGCGATGCCCAGCTTGGGCTGGGCGCAGGGAAGGGCAAACGTTGCTGAGCCGCCGAGGGGCTGGGTCTTCGCCTTTATTTCTGGTGCACGTCTAGAGGGGCCCGGGCAGAGGCCACCCACGGTCCCTGAAGTAGGGCCTCAGCTCCTCCAGGCTGAGCGGAGGGAAGTAGGCTCCGATCCTCTTCCGCACCCACCACTTGCCCTCGGCGGCGTGCCTGCCCCCAGGACGGCTGAACTTGTACCTGTAGTGCTCTCCTCGGACCCACCTGCAAGGGGGCACATGTCAGCCCAGGGCCTGCTGGGACTCCCGGCCCCCGACCCGGCTCCTCAGCCTGCTGCTGAGCTGCAGCTGCTCACAGGGTCCCCCACGGACAGAGGGGCTGCATGAGGAGCCCCCACCCTGAGCACAGGTAGACCCCCAGCAGACCCCGGGCAGGGCAACTGTTCCAGTCGGCACCCTCAGCAGTGAACAGCGCAGCAAGGGGGAAGGGCGGACGGGGGGCAGCTCCGGGAGGGGAGACCCAGCAGGGCCCACTTGGCAGAGGGACCGGCCCGGGGAAGGCCAGGAGCTTCACGGGTGGCACTGAGCAAGCCTGAGACCGTTCACAAGGCCCCAGTTTGAGCCCCAAGTGTCCCCCGCCTGGGAAGGTGGGGAGAGGAACCTACTGCTCATGGTGTGGCGTCTCCACCATCAGGCCAGTCCTGGCGCAAGGTGCCTGGGGGTTTCGGTCCACGGGGCAGTCCGAGGCTGTGAGGGAGCCAGGCCGGGACCTGTTTCCTGAGGGCGGAGCCTCTGCTTCCCAGGGCTTCAGGCCCTTCCCTGCCTGAGACGTGCAGATGCTGGCTGGCTGCTCTCCTCTGTCATGCCCGAGTGGGATGAAGGCCCCCACCCCCATCTCCCCTGGAGCAGGGTAGCGGGCAGGTCTCTCTGCTGAGCCCTGTATAAGGTCCCGCCTGACCCCTGGTGACCAGGCCTGGTTTAGGCCATACTGGGTCTTGGTCCCTGGCTGGCAAGCCCTCACTGGACTCTCGGAGGACTGGGCATTTTCTCCTGGGGGTGGGACGAAGCCCCCTCATGTCCAGGGTTGCTCGGCTGCCCCGGAGGAGGAGGCGCCAGGAGGAATTGTCACCGTCACAAGCTCCCGGCCCTCCAGGCCCCTTCGCAGTTGTGCAGCAGGAGCGGAAGCTTCTCAGCCCACAGGGCGGCTGCTGCCTGGCTGGGATCCATGGCAGAGCTGGGCCCCAGCTGCCCGGTGGGTGTGATGGTGCAGCCATAACAGGACCCTCTCATGGCCCCTGGAATGAGCCCAGGCAGGTGCCAGAGGCTTCACACTGCACCAGGGCCCGGTAGCGACTGTCTGGGCTGCTGTCATTATTTGGGGCTTCTGGTGACCTGCACACAGCTGTGCTCTGGGGGCTGGGGGTGGAGACCTTGGGCCATGCCCCTTAGGCTGGCAGGGTGAGGGCCTCTGGGTCCACCCGGCTCCTCCTGGCTTTGAGTCTCTTTGGGTCTGGGTGTGTGATGGATGATGATTCTTCTCTCCCCAAGTCTGAATTACGCCAGGAAAACCGGGAAGACAGAGACCCTCTGGGTGGAGGAGGGTCCCTGAGGCGCCTGATGGGAGAGAGGGATCAGCAGCTCCAAGAGGAGTGGGGTCGGGCCTTTGGAAAACCTCCCGGGCAGCCAAGACTGAGGGTGATGCTGGCAGTTGGTGGCTCCCGTCCACTCCAGGAGGGCACTGCCCACTGCCCTGGGCCCCAGGGGTCTTTCCTGGACCCCTTGGGCCTGAGGCTGCCATGGTTTTCCTTGGCTATAAGGACGGCAGCGGCCAGCATGGGGACTGAGGCCAGGTGGTGCCAGGCAGAGAAGTCACACTGGACCCCGAGGTCGACCTCTGAGCAGCTCAGCAGCAGACTGAAGGGACGGGCTGGAATGCGGCCGTGAGGGCGCTGGGCTGTGCGGGCAGCATGGTCCCTGCACACTCTCCTGGGCCTTGCTAGGGCAATGCAGTCCCCAGGCAGGCCCACCCTCTCCCAAACCCTGCATTTAGTGAGGCCGGGAGGGTGGGGATCCTGGGAAGGCCTCCTGCAGTGGGATTGCCCATCTTTCCCAAATTCCTGCTCTTGCTTTCTGCTCCTTCCCAGGACAGGGTCAAGGCCTAGGGGGCCCAGGGCCTGGTCTCTGACATCAAGAGCTGGAACTGCAGTTTGGAAAGGGTTTTGGAAAGGGTCAGAACCCTCTGTGCCAACTGGCAGGTTGGTGGGAAGGGGCCCCAGGCCCCAGCGGCCTGAAGGGTTGCATTTCATTCCTGCAGACAAAGTACCCGAGAAGGCCATGGCACCGCCCCGGAGGGCTTGAGAGTGTTGAAAATAGGGGATCTCCCAGCCCTTTTGAAATAGACCCTACTGGCAACAGCTGGGCATCTTGCACAGCTATAGTAGGGATTGCAGCCAGGGCCTGACACTGAGGCCACAGACACGGGTCCCATCCACGCCCGGACCCCCGTGTCCTTCCACACCCTCCCCGACCTTCGGCCTCCTTGTGTGATTTCAAGAACGtatgatttcaagaatgagtggaaccctgcggcacgtacccgcggggcaggcgattctcacgccaattctcaggttccgccaggtcgtgtgatggaggcttccttcctcctcgtcgctgaccggcgtctgcggcgtgagtgcaccctagtttgtgcggtcgctctcttgtggaaggacagctgagctctttgcagtttttgtctgtgacggctgccgtaaacctctgcacgggtttctgcgtgaacctgggtttcaactctctggcttaaacgtccatggaagcagctgctgagtccactgcaacttcgggtgtcctttttgaggagccattttaccctcccagcaacagccgagtgactcgatttcttggtatctttgccagcatgtggggttgttgctacttttattccagccgttttgatgggtgtgcagtggtgtcACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACCGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGATGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCACGGGATGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgcagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtcacgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgcgtggtgtcacgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgcgtggtgtcacgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtcacgggatgggtgtgcagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgcagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgcagtggtgtCTCGGGATGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGACTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGACTCGGGACGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGACTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGCGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGATGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGATGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCACTGATGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGTTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGAGGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGTTGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGATGTCACGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGACGGGTGTGCAGTGGTGTCTCGGGATGggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgcagtgatgtcacgagatgggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtcacgggatgggtgtgcagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgagtggtgtctcgggatgggtgtgcagtggtgtCACGGGATCGGTGTGAGTGGTGTCACGGGATGGGTGTGCAGTGATGGTACCGgatgggtgtgcagtggtgttatggtggtttttgcttctctaatgacaggcatttctcctgagcttatctgtcatctgtgcaccttctttggtgaaacgtctctgtgctcattttctaataagattattttagtattaagttatgaaacttctttacatattccagattttagactattgtcagatacgtgacttgcaaatattttctgtctgtagcttaaaaattatctttgttctcttaacaggtctttttatggagcaaatgcttttaattttaatgaatttcaattaatttttcctttcacagatcatctttaagtataatgactctgcctggccctagatcccaaagattttcttctattttttcctgaaagtttttttttttttgagatgggctctcgctctgttgcccaggctggagtgtggtggtgtgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggctcaagtgatcctcccacctcagcctcccgagtagctgggactacaggcatgtgccaccaggccctgctaattttttgtgtttttagtagagacggggttttgccacgttgctcaggctggtctcaaactcctgaggtcaagcaatctgcccaccttggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacagatgtgggccaccatgcctggccctgaaagttgattgtcttatgctttacgttgaagtccaggatccgttttgagttatttttgtgtggggtgagacgtgggtcgaagattttgtttttgtccatggaattgcttttgcgcttttgtaaaaaaaactcatccgggcatgtttgtttgggtctctttgtgggttctctgttgtgttccatggaattacatgtctgtccctctgtcaatactacactgtgttgactactgtagttctgtgtcttgaaactgggtagattgattcgttccaccttgttctctttcaaaatggttttagctatttttgctcctttacatttccatagaaaacttgggatgacttgtccttacctattaacacatcttgctgggttttttttttaataggaattgcattaaacctgtccatcaatctggaaggacctgtcatctccacgttgttgtatcttccaacccacgaacgcggccgtgtctctaggtgtgtgctgacgtctttcagcagcattgctgagttttcagcatgtaagttctgtgcatgttttgtcaggtttatacctaagtatttcgctttttggagtggttttaagtggttctgcgtatttaatttaggtgtctgtgtgttcattgctagcgtacaggaatactattgaatcatttaggttgatcttgtgtcttctgactttgctgaactcacttattaattttctttctttttttttttttttttttttgagatggagtttcactctgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtgacgcaatctcagctcactgtaacctctgcctccccggtacaagcaattctcctacctcagcctcctgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcgtcaccacacctggctaatttgaatttttttttagtagagacagggtttctctatgttaggctggtcttgaactcccgacctcaggtgactggcctgccttggcctcccacagtgctgggattgcaggtgtgagccgctgcgcccggcctcgcttcataattctaggagtgtttttggtggataccttgggatttcctacaaagacaacggcgtcatctgtaaacaggcagtttcgtttcttcctttgtgatcgacacgccttttctttccttgtcctgcgtactgcagtgcccagcgcttccagcaccatgccggatccgatggttagagcagacgtcctttcttgttccggatctgaatggtgaagggtgattccttgccctcgaggagaatgctggctgcagggcttgtacagatgctctttatccagcggaggaagttcctctccttctctgtttttccaagtttaaatcatgaatagatgttaaacttgtcacgggccttcccaacactgacagatgtgatcgtgtgagttatcttcggtagctggtaacgtgtggatctcatcgactgattctcaaatacggaaccaaccttcatccctggaataatccctacttggtcatggcatagaattctttgttatatattggcaaattctatttagtaattttttttttttttttgaggcagagtctcactctgttgccgaggctggagtgcagtggcaccatctctgcttactgcaacctccacctgccgagtagttgggattataggcagccaccaccatgcccagctaatttttgtatttttagcaaagatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggctggtcttgaactcctgacctcaggtgatctgctcgcctcggcctcccaaagtgttgggattacaagtgtgagccattgtgcccagtctatttagtaatattttgttaaaaaattttgtgtctatatcactgagggatattggcttgtaatattattttcttgtattatctttgtgtggttttggtatcagagaaccactagcttcataaaataaattgaggctgggtacagtggctcatgcttgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggtgggaggactgcctgagcccaggagtttgggaccagccagggcaccatggcaagatcctgtctctacaaaaactaaaaaaattagtgaggcgtggtggtgtgggcctgtggtcccagctacctgggaggctgaggcgggaggataatttgagctgaggaggtcgaggctacagtgagccatgtttgtgccattgcactccagcctgggtgacagagagtgagaacctgtctcaaaaaataaataaataaataaataaaacgtaaattgatgcttttccttctcttctattttctgggaaattaatcttagaattctccagtgaaaccatctgagcctggatatttctttttggagtttaaaatgacaaattcaatttctagttatagggctatttaaattattatttcataccaggtgagttgtggtagtttgtgttttttgaggaattggtctatttcatccaagttataaaatttatgtatgtagatgtttgtcgtagtcgcttattatccttttcagattgcagggtctgtagtgatatctctttttcgtttcgagacagaatcttgtggtgtcgcccaggctggagtgcagtgctgcagtctcggctcgagcaattctcgtgtttcagcctcccaagtagctgggactacaggcacctgccaccacgcccagccaagtttttgtatttttagtagagaccgggtttcaccatgttggccatgctggtcttgaattcctgagttcaggtgatccacccgccttggcctcccaaagtgcggtgatttcaggcatgagccaccacacccaacctcttttttcatctttgatattggcaatcgtatcttctccttttgttattcttactagagggttgctgattttattggtcttttaaaagaaccatctctttgtttcaataagtttctctattgtttgttttcagtttcattttctgctttttactattttcttactgctccttgctttaaattttttcctagttattcatgtgatcttgagctagattattattattttttaagcgatggggtcttcctgtgctgcctgatgccaagaggctggcgttaacgtcctgggttcacacagtcctcccacctcagcctcctgagtagctgggactacaggtgcttccacggcatccagctgatgtcagattattgatttgagatccttcctctttctaaaatctcaggtctcttttctaatgtatgcatttggtgctttctctctcatcactagtttaactacatcccagaaaatgtgacatgtCATTCAGTGCAAtgggtggcatattctataaacatcattaggccctgcctgtcgatgatggtgctcctttatgttcttgctgaatttccatctagttattctacctattgttgaaagaagggtgttgaaacatccagccgtaattgttgatttgtcgagctctcctttcagttctttttcttcacatgttttgcagatctgtgcttagtgcacacacttaggattgctacatctgtttggcaggttgattcttttctcattgtccgtctttgtctccaataatttttgcactgaggtctactttgaggttaatacaatgaatcctttattttcattaatagtcacatatttttttctatccttttactttcaacctgcctatAcagagggtccctaacttatgagagttccactgacagtttttcagctttacaatggtgcgagggatacgcactcggtaggaaccgcactgtgagtgcccagacaactatcctgttttcacttccatacagtattcagtaaatgacatattcaacactgtattacaaaacaggcctgtgctaggtgattttgcccagtgtagtctaatgtaagtgttctgagcacgtttaaggtagtaggctaggctgagctacgacggatgtttggtaggtgtattaaactcatttttgacttacattttcaacttatgctgcatttatcagggcataagctcattatGCATATATTTAAGTTACTAtcttttttttttttttttgagatagggtcttgtgtcgcacaggctggagtgcagtggcatgtcttgggtcactgtagcctcagcttcccgagtagctgggattacaggcatgcaccaccatgcctggctaattgttgtatttttagtaaagagggttttgccatgatggccaggctgattttgaactcctgacttcaagtgatacacctgcctcagctcccaaagtgctgacattacaggagtgagccactgcacctggccAAtctttatctcttaattggcttatttagaccatttacattgaatatacagtcggtcattttacttcttcccatctgttctgtttctgatttctttgtttttcccaacctgctttcctatgggttatgtaagtgttttagaattccattttgatttgtcaatagtgtgttccaatgtatctcttagtataggttgttttttactggctgttcttggcacgtaacttacagtctactgatgtcattttaccacttcaagttaagcatagaaacctcacctctatgtccatttgccctcatccatttatagttatcttaactacttcctctacataaactttgaactacttcagacagttttatagcctttgcttaaccatccaacatgattggaactcaagagaaggaacgtctattgtatttacccatGtcttttcttttttcttttgagattgagtctcgctctgttgcccaggctggagggcaacggtgtgatctcggctcactgcaacctctgcctcccaggttcaagcaattctcctgctcagcttcctgagtagctgggattacaggcgtgtggcaccatactcgctcattttttatttttgtagagacgagacttcaccatgttggccaggctggCAATGttttattatctctggtttttagaaatttgactttgatgtgtttaggtttgaatttctttgggtttttcctatttagggtttgctcagtttattgactcggtaggtttgtccgttttgccaaatttgggaagttttcagttcttatttctccaagtacattttcagccctaaagctcactctgtcttcctcctaggactctgatgacatgaattctggatcttctgttacagtctcagtcccacagatccctggggctcttgctgtttttccccgtctatgtcctctcacttgttcccactgggtactttctatgtttaagtttattgattctttcctctgtcctcaccattcagatgtcgagtgttttgtgtcagttatatttttcacttctaaacttttcatttggttctttaaaaaaccgatttctttgctgaggctgtattttttatcagttgtgttcataattactgcatgcgttttcgacggctgcattcacatctctgtgaagtcactctaatacctccctcatcttggtgctatcatctgtcgactgtcctttttcaccaatgtcttcctgtttcctgctgtgacaagtaatttttccactgaaaactgaacattttgtgtattaggagattttggatcttatttaaaccttctgctttagatgacttcttctgacctcatgctggtagagacaggggtattaccttgctcctgccaggttggggtagaactccagtggacgcattgggagtattccttgttgtttctgggtagggtgggagtcgtggctctgcactaggcctccatgacactatggcgggggtggcctagtcattgctggctgggtggtggtgaaggtcctgactttctggtagctattacgtaataccactctggaggggaggagcccttcagtactgccaggggttgggggagtccaggctcctcgtgtggtctccactgataccacagaagcgggggatccttcctgcccacttggatgaaaatctcagcttcctatttggcctcctctggtagcatcccagtgagccgtttggaggagagtccaggctccctactccataccttgctggtgtgggtggggccatggttttttctgtggtgttgcctggagtggtgattattttatgtaaatttcctgtcttgctaggctgctcttttctggccctttagtcagagagagcagatttttgttgaggtgtttcttgtctgcatctgctggcattactgggtttccagtttcctcacccccaagtctagaaaatgaggccgaaagcaagcctaggcgatcaccaccattttggggctgtggctccgtcccgagggccctgctggtggctctcttctctcaccttcggtcttcctgttttatgtataacgtccagggatcttggttgcacttagtgggaggaacaggggtaagtgtctgttccatcttccAGTTTTAAAGTCGATGATGAACTCAATGCAGGCCCACGGTTAGCCACAGCCTGTCATGGTACCACCTGCTCCAGCTGCCAAACATGTGTATCATGGAGACGGGAGAGATGTGCCGTGTGGCAGTGTTCAATAATGTTTTCCCTAAATGTTAACTCATTACTGGTTCACATAAAATAGTTACTGCTTTTCACACTTGGTTTTCACAGTATCCATCCTTTCAGGTAGACTTTGGGACTCATGGATGGACCTGAAGCTGCTCTGACATGATTACTTTTTCCAGCACCTCCTGGCTGAGAAACAGATGATCCGACTGTGTGCTTGGCCAGAAGAGGCTTCCGTCACGACCTGACGATGGCAAACCTTCCTCTGGGCCAGCTCCAGGGTCCCCAGGCACCGAGGAGGCTGCGATCTGGGGTGGGGGCTGGGGGGCTCTGAAGGCTGCTGAGACGGGGCAGTAACAGAGAAGACCCGTATTGAGCCTCGAAGGACGAGCTCTGGGGCCTGGTCCCCAGTGAGCCAGGGGAACGGCCGCCTGTCCGGGCTCCAAGGTCTCAGGCTCCCAGGGCTGCTGGTGGCCACGTGGCAGGCAAGTCACCTGGAGCTTGATGCCAATTCACAGGAAGGTGGCCCTGAGGGCGCCAGCTAGGAGGGCGGCCACCCCACCGGGGGCTCTGGGATGGAGCCTCCCCTGGACTGCCTGAGGCCGGGCCCATGAGGAGGGACCCCATAGCCCCTCTGCCCCAGCTCCCTGTGATACCCGTGCTGGGGAAGCAGCCCTGGAAGCATCGCTTGGCCGGGAGCACCTGCCTGGGCTGCCAGACTCGGGCCCAGCTGCTCCACTGCCTCTGTGGACCTCGGCGCCCCTCCCATCCCCGCCCTCCGGCTCCTTGGCTGGGGTCTCCAGGCAGCTGTGAGCAACTCCAGAGGGTGCAGCTGTCCCAGCTCCCGAGTGTTCTTGGAGGGAAAATCCAGAGCTGTGTTTTCCGTCAGAATCGGCGGCTGATGGCGCAGGGGAGGGGTGGGCAGTCCAGACTCTGCTCTGTTCCTGCTACCTCCAGGGGGCTGCTCAATCCCAACCATGTGGGGCAGGGGATACAAACGCTTGTCAGAGTGGCCGCCCCAGGTCTGGTCACGTGGACGTCTCCAATCCTCCATGCTCTGCCCCACCCTGGGCCCCACCCCACACTGTCCTCAGATCCCCTCCCGTACCCCAGCGGGGCCCCATCCCTGCCTCCTGCTCCTCTTCTGAAGGCCCCAGCTCTCCCCAAAACCTTGTCCTCTGGTCACAATGCTCAGGGTCCTTAGTGTCTCCCTGTGCACCCCAGCTCCCCTGCGTGGAGTCTGGAAAGTCATCCCTGGTATGGAGAGGAGGGTGACTTCCCCCATGGCTACCACCTCTGGCTCCTGAGAATCTGACCCTGCGGGGCTCCCTCCTTGGAATGTCACCACGTCACTGGCCGGAGTGGGCGAGGCTGCAGGGCCCACAGGGCTCTCACTGCAGTCCCCTGCCCAGTTCACCATGGACCCCTGGGGCTCCTGGAGTGAGGGCCCTGCCTGTCCTTCTTGCCTCTCCAGGCCAGGAGCAGAGGTGGCACCTAGAGGACACCTCAACAAAGCTGTGAGCCGGGGTCACCCTGCCCAGAGCAGCTGTCCTGGGCTCCTCTCACCACGGCTGGTTTGGTTTGAGGTGGGCTATGAGGCAGGGGTGGGACCAGCCTTGATGCCAAGGCTGATGTGGGGCGGGGGGGGGGGGCCCTTTTTGCTCCCAGCAGGCCCCACCTCCTGCCTCTGCGGGAGGGAAGGGGCGCTTCCCGTGAGCAGGTGGGGGTGCAGGTACAGGTGGTGGGATCCCAGCAGACACCTGGATTTGGGGGAGACCCCTGAGCAGCGGCAGGGAGGGCATCCTACCTGGGCGGGGGCCTGCCCGCGAAGGGGTTGTGTGCCAGCAGGGACAAGGCCTCGGCGTCGCTGGCCAGGAGCTTGCCAGCCAGGTGGATGATCCAGTCGTTGTGCTCGTAGGTCTGGGAGGAGAGGTCGGGCTGGAGACGGCTGTGCCACTCGCTGTCCAGGCACAGCCCCTCCGGACGCTCGGCTGTGCCCTCCACTCCCTCCTGAGGCTTTCCTGGAGGTGGGTTCCCTGGGCAGCCGCACTCCAGCTCTTTGGCTGGGGTCCCCTTAAGGGGCTGCCTGCTTCGTGTAGCCCTGACCACTCATTCCCATGTCGGCCGCTGGCTTCGCTCCCCTGGCTGGGTGCCTTGGAGCCTGTCCACCCCAGCACCCTCTGTCTGGGCCTTGCCTCCCTGAGGCTCAGTTTTCTGGTGGCTGAGACGGGACCGGGAGGACAGAAACAGCAGCTCTGTCCATGGGTGCCTCTGCTACCCCCAGCCCTGGGGAttccttctttcctgttcgctgagacagggtctggctccgtcccccagactggaaggcaacgctgccatcatttgaggctgcagcggttgggctcaatcgatccttcctcctcctgcgtagctgaaaccacaggcgccaccctcagctgctggctaacttttgtattgttcgtagatacagggtctcgctatggcacccgggctgggattcctggCATGAGACACTACCTGGCAGACCCGGGGGGACGGTGGGGCTGGGCTCCCACATGAGGCCCCTCCTAAGGCTGGGCCTGGATGTCGTGTGGGCTCAGTTCTCAGCTCAGGCAGGATCCCATCTCTCCCAGCCTCCCTCCCCACCAGCCCCTTCAGTGGGCGTTCTAGAAACCTGCCATCTATGGGCAGAAGAGGGTGGGGTACAGGCAGGTCCATGCGCCCGCCAGGGACCGTCCCCCACCTGGAAGGCCGCGAACCACATCAGCCAGTCCAGGCGGTAGTGGTACGGGGAGATGAGGCAGGGCCGTCTGCTGGGGTCACCTGGCTTGCACTTGAACTCGTAGTCCTCCCACATGGCATCGGGGGCGCTGGCGTTGGAGCTGGCTGTGCCCTGCAGGATCACCTCCGCCCGCTCCTTGGTGATGCTGCCGGGAGACCGAGGCAGGCCAGGCCCACGTCACACACCGGCTGGGCCGAGTGGGGTGCATGGGTGGGGGGGGTTCCCCGACTGTCCATCCTGGCCCAGGGGGAGGGCTACAGCCTCCACCTGCCTCCTGGTCAGGGGCTACTGAGAGGCTGGGTGGGGCTGAGGAGAACTTTTGGGAACTGTGGCCCCAGGGTCTCATTCGAGAACACCTTCTCTGCCCGTGAAGACCCAGCTGCAGCCGCCATGTGCCCCATGCCCCTCGGCAGCTCAGGGTGGACATGAGGGGGACAGAGGCCAAGGGGCTGGCCCCAGGACAGGGAGGGTGCCTGTGTTCAGGTGGCACTACCTGGCATTCCCACGCAGGGGGTTGGGGCCTGGTGGCCTCTCCCTTACGCCCCCAGTAGGCATTCCAGGGCCGCAGCCCACCTGCCTGGTGACCTCGGGCCCTGCCCCTTTGCCTCATGGGACCAGGACGAGGAGGCCTGCGTGTCCAGGCCCGGTAGTGGGGACAGCACGGCCTGTGCCTGGGTCAGGCTGGGGTGGGGCAGGGGACACTTGGGGTCATGGGGGCCTGCACTGTAACCCCACCTGAATGTGGCTGGTCAGGGCTGAGTCTCCCCATATACCCAGCTCCGGGGGACGGGGACCCCAGGCTCATACCTTCCGAAGGCCCCGTAAGTGTTGACGATGTGAAGAGAGTTGAAGTGGGTGTTCATGACCTGCCTGGAGCTCAGCAAGTTGAGGACCACGGGCACGCTGAGCCAGGCCAGCAGGACGCCCAGCGAGACGTTGGCTGCACGCCGCACCACGGAGCCTGGCAGGGGAGTGACATCTTCCAGGTGGGGCTCCCAGCTGCCCCGTGGCCTGTCCCTGGGGAGACCCCAGCTGCTGCTCCCTAAGGGTCAGCTGTCCTGGGTCCCGGGGACGGAGCAGCACCCGAACTCACACACCTTGTTCCTGGCACGCTACACTGCGGACGGCGCTGACTCTCCTCCTACCCTGGCGTCCCCAACCCACACGGGCAGGCTGTGGGGCTGGCACCACCCGACTTTCTCCTGCCCTTGGGCAGGGGCCCCCAGCTGAGCCACCTACCGAATCTGGGCTCGGGCCGGGCCCCTCGGATGTCCCTCTGCATCTGCAGAACTCGGTCCTTCAGGCTGCCTGGCCCAGAGGGGAACAAGAATCCCAGGGTGGCGTCATCAAAGCAGGCCAGGCTGGGCACCATAGTCAGCCAGTTCAGGAAGCTGAGGTTCCCGCTGACGATGAGGACGGCCTGTGGAGACGCCGCAGCTGAGTCTCGTGCAGGGGCTCGTGTGGGGCCCCTGGGCAGCTGGCGCCTCTCTTCCTGGAGCAGGGAGGGGGGAGGGAACCTGCACCCAGCTCTGCCCTTGCTGTCCCTCGGGCCCAGCATCACAACTGAAACCCAGCTGTGCCTTCATGGAGGGGACAGCAGATGCCTCAGAGGTGCCTTCCGGCAGGTGCTTCCAGAACATTCCTCCCATGACTGCACATTTCTGTGCAGGTTCTGTCCCTTGCTTTAGTGATCCGCAAGGCGGGGGCTGGACCAGACCACCAGACCCTGTGCCCTCCTGGAACTCCTCACTTTCAGAGGGCACCTGCCGGGGTCATGCCCGGGGAAGGCTGGTGAGTCCAAACAGAGGAGGCTGTGCTTGGAGAGTGGGTACTGGGGACGCCCCTCAGCCGATGGGTGACACAGACAACAGGGGCCGTGGGGGGGCCACCAGTAACGCCCCCACTCCAAAATACGAAATGCAAGGAAGTGAGACACAGGCACAGGACCCTGTGCCACAGAGATGAACAGCAGGAGAGGGGAGGGGCTGCATGCAGGGCTGGCTGAGCAGCACGGCTGGGAGAGCTCCAAGGAAAGACTCAGCAGCAGCAGTGAGTAAACCTGCGGCAGGAGGGACTCAGAGGGACCCGCTTCTGGACATCCCCGCAGGCCAGCGATCGTTAGGTGACGAAACTGGAGATGGAGCCGCTGTCCCTGCAGCTCCGTCGGGTGATATCACAGGTGTGCTGCCAGACCTCACCCCTGCCGTTGCCGTGGAGGCATCAGGGAGACAGGGGCAGCTTGCGTGGCCGGTCGCCCTGCATGGGTGATGGTCTGCAGCTGAGCCGGTGGACCCTGGGCCGGCAGGACCTGGGTGTGGCTTCCTCAGACAGCTCCGTCAGCCAGATTTGATGCATCAAAGCCCAGCCTTTATCCCCGTAACTCAGGAGGAAGGTTGAGGGCAGGGACATCGACGTCTAATGAAGGGACTCGTGAGGGCAGCCACATCAGTGTTATGGGCGATGATGGTGTTTTATGAACTGTGCACTCATGGCTCTCCCTGGGTGAATTGGGAAAAATAGCTTTTCTGGTTCTGAGCCCCAAAACAGTTATTTCTTATTCTCCACTGTCTACAAGGTTACTAAACCCCTGTGCCAAAAACAGCCCCGCCTCGCCCTGGCTGGGGTTAGCCACCTCTGCCACCAGCTCCCCTCCGCTGGTCCAGACCCCCATGCCCTCCGTCCTGAGTGTGACCAGGGCTGGTCTGGGGTGGGGTGGCTGGGAGCCCCTGAGCTCCCGTGACAGGGAGGGTGCAGGGCTAGGCACTGAGGTCTGACCTTTGGGCCCACTCTTGGGGATGCTCTGGAGGAGATGCCACAGGTGACACTGGAATGTCCTGGTGGGAAAAGCTCGGGTCTTTCTGGCCCTTCGCTGTGGTCAGCCTGACTGGCAGATGGGACCAAAGCGACCTGGGGCACAGCCTGAGCCAGTGCCCGTTCGGATGCTCGGCCATGCCAGAACCATCAGGAGCTTTGAGGAACACCCAGCCCTGAGCACCTGCCTGCCTGGGTCAGGGTGGGCCCTGCCTGAGTGTATTTCCAAAGCCCCCTTGGGTCATCCTGCTGTGGGCTCAGTGGGGAACTCTAGCCTCAGGGAACTAGGGCTCCAGAGAGCACAGATCTGGGCATCAGATCCTGTTTCTAAGAAAGCTTCGGGGCTCGGGGCCCTGCTCCATGCAGAGGCATCCCCAGCTGCGCCCCGTTCAGCTGCTCTGGTGCATCTCTCGCCCTCCATCTGGTCGGCTGTTTTGTTATGAAAACGCAGTTCCGCGTAGAGTGCACGGCCTGAGCGCTCCTGGGGGACCTCGCCTTCCTTGTTTTTCTTCTAGCATCACTGAGCCATCTCCTCAGAGGGAAATCAGTCTTCTCACTGCCCATCTGTGCTCGCCCCCGCCGGCGGAGTCCTCACAAGGCTGTGCGGCCCACAGATGACCCGGCCGGTGGCTGGGAGCGGAGGCGAGGCCCGAGGGGGTCCCCAAGGCCGGCACAGGAAGAGGAGCTTGAGGTGATGGAATCCTGGGCCCAAGAGACGGAGCAGCAGGTGTTCCGAGGCCAACGGCGCATGGCCCCAAGAAGGAAGAGTGGCATCTTTGGATGCAGCCTCCTGCCTGTCAGCTGCCACGGAGAACAGGTGGCTTGTGGGGACCCTCTGCCGAGGACACGCCCGCGCTCACAGGGACCCTCCGCCGAGGACATGCCTGTTCGCGGGGACCCTCCGCCGAGGACACCCCTGCGCTCGCGGGGACCCTCTGCTGAGGAAATGCATTGTGTTCCAGGTGGGCACTCTGGTGGGCGTGAACCCAGGTCTCTCTTCAGTGTCACAGAGAGGAGATGAGGGCAGAAGAACATGGTGGGAGGTAGAGAATCTGCTGAGGTCTAACACCAGTCCATCAGCATCCACGACAGCAGTGACCCAGAGCCCTATGCCTGACCCACGGAAACGCatgcagccttgcaaaggaatcggagttcagcacgtgccccgaaagggacagacccagggtcatggtgctcagggagggaggctggacggaggccgcacattgtaggatgccagttgcatggaacgtccgagtcgggaatccagagatgaagctcccagtggctggtggaggcccggcggcgggtgtgagggtctcctttgccgggtgtggggggggtatgggaagttctggaaccaggcggaggcggcggttgcatcacgctgtgaacgtgctggaggcccccgagttcacttcaaaagcatgaacttactttgcgttatctgtgttgtttcatcacaaccgaaaCACAGCTAAGGGCCGGTGAGCCCAGCTCTGGGACAGAGCCTCAGGACAGCCGGCCTGTGTGTGCGGGGCTGGCAGGGCCTCCGGGCCTCTGTCTTGAGCGGGCGTGGGGTGCAGCCACCACAGGGCAAGGAGCCCTTTGGGCAGGGCGGGGTGGGGTGGGGCCGGACAGCCCGCTGTGGGCAGGCGCCTCAGAGGTTCCAGACCTGAGCTCACCCCCTGCCCCTCCCGCCCTGGCAGTCCGGGGCTGCGTCTCCCTGTCACCAGTGCCCTAGTGGAGGCTGATGGCTCCCGTGGGGTGCTGGCTGGGCGGCCGGGCTCTGCGGTCACTGCTCTTGTGCACCTCTCCAGGCAGGCAGCGGCCCCAGGGCCCCGCGGAACCCTCCGGAACAGCTGTGTAAACTGCGTGGGAGGAGGGAGGCTGCTCATGCCGCAACTCCCCAACGGAAGGATCACGGGAACCAGGACAGGCTCCGGGGGACGGTGCTCAGATGGGAACACACGGAACCAGGACGGGATCCGGGGAGGCGGCGCTCAGATGGGAACACACGGAACCAGGACAGGCTCCAGGCAGGCGGCGCTCAGAAGTCTCAGGGCACTCGGCTGTCACAGCGCGGCACAGGGGAGTACGCAGCCCCAGCCAGGACACTACAATGTTAGAGGGCGCGGGTCACTCTCAGCCCCACACCATATCATCCCCCAGACACCCTCTGCCCTGTACGCCTGTGGGGGCAAAAGCCCTAGTTCAAGACCCCACACTGCCTGTGAGGGGGCAGGATACATCGCAGCCGGGACTGCCGGCCGACCATCTTGTCTTCCAAGGGGGGACGCCAGGCCACGCCGCAGAGCACAGCCACGACCCTGGTGCTTCCACCTCGTCCTGGACACAGTGTGGGGCTGGAGAGGATGACGCAGCCTGACCTCCGAGGCCTGGAAGGGAGGCGCTGCCTGTGCCGGGTCTTTGAGGGTGGTGCTCACAGTCCCAGGTGCAGTGAGGCCCAGCTCTGTCCCCTCCCCTTTCAGCATCCCCACTGTCCACCGCCACTCACCCCACCAGGCAGCGGACTCCAAAACGGGGCCAGCACCGGCACTAAGGGAACCCGCAGCCTGGCCGTCATGCTTGGGAGGGTCCCTGTCTGCCTGCACCAGGGCCCGTTGGTCCAATTCTCATCTAACCCCCTGGCCAGGTTCCTGCGTTCTGAATAAACAAGGACGTTTTTGAGGCCTCTGGTTCAAGGGTCACCTCCCCATTCCATGTCACGGTAGCTCAGCCCTCAAGTGACTCCCACTTTCTCCATTTACTTAAGTAACTCAGCACCTTGCTTTTCATGAGAGCTTCTCCCAGGCAGCATCAGCTTATCGGGAGAGGGGCAGTGGTGGAACTGGCCAGCACAGCCTGAGGGAGGGACGCTACAGGGTACACGGGCCATGGAAGCGGGAGGTGGGATCCTGAGCACTCCCCACTGCCAGGCAGCCACGGAGCCAAGCAGACCAACACCCCTGCCTGGGCTGTGTGTCCAGGGGTGCCCTTGGACCGGCCTCGGAACCAGACCCGAGCCTGGCGTGGGCATCTCTGTGTTCTCCACCGGCAGGGGCAGGCGGGACCCTGGGGCAGCACAGCCCACGCAGGAGGTGTGTGGGGTCGGGGTGACTCCCGGGAGTCTCCAGCCCGGCCCTCCTCCAGCAGCTGGGACCCCAGGACCGCATGGCTGAAGACGGCTCAGGAGTCACCCGTGTGTGTGGCCCCACCCAGGTCAGGAATCCTGGAACACACCCCTCCATTCAGGCTGGACACCCCTCCCTGGGTGGCAGTGGGACCCGGGGCTGGCACAGCCGGCCCTGGCCCCACGCCTGTGCTCAGCACAACCCTCCTTGTGCGCCCTGTGGGAAGCACATGTGCCCGGGGCTCCGTCTGTtgcccttcagaggctgagtggagaaacaaaccggggcacgtgcggaccacgggcgtctcggaaccgaagagaaacaagcagtggagcctgcaggaggtgcaggagcccacgcgcggccgcggagggcaggaagccagtccgcaaaggctgcacaatgcttcccactctaggatgtccggaagaggcagtaccgtggagacggagggtcggcggggcacagagaacttccagggccacaagcgactctgcatgaagctgtgatggggacacgtgtcgtcgtccgtttgtcggagctcacagaatgagcaacactgcgaatggctctcctgtcagccgggactttagttggcaacagtttatcagtcctgcctatcaactatacaaggtcctggccgatgcaagacgctgagcgcagggaaactgggagggggggataagggaacctttgtagtctctgcacagtttttccgaaaatctaaaagtgttctaaaaTAAGTCAATTAATAAAACGAAACAGAGCTGAAACACTGGAGCAAAGGACGCAAGTGGCTTGGGGCGGACAGAGGCAGGCTGGGTGGGCTGAGGACCTTGGACAGAGGCGGGCTGGGCGGGCTGAGGACCTCGGGGGGTCATGGTGGCAAAGATGCTGCCCAAACTGAGACCTTCAGTAAGTTAACATGGCTGATTGATTGATAACCACTGAGGAAACAGAGGATCTTCCTTATCCATTAGAGGAGGGAAAATAACAGAAAAAAACGAGAGAGAAAGATACAAAGAACAAAGAGAAAAACACAAAGATGTGGAAATACGTCCAAATATGTCAGTTGAGATATACGGGCCTGTTACTTAAAAGAGAAAGACGGCCACGCTGACCCTAAGCATGACCTTGCTCCCCGCTGTCTCAGGAGATGCGTGTCGGTGAGGACACAGGCCTTGAGGCCGggcgcacacctgcagtcacggcactttaggaggtcaggcaggaggagtgctcgagccctggagttcaaaaccagactgggcaacatagcgagacccccagctctacaaaaaatgaaaaatagctcggcgtggtggcacctgtagtcccggctacttgagaggctATAAAACTAAGATAATACTATGACTTTTTTTGCCAAAAGATTTGAAAACAGATGAACAAATTCCCAGGGAAATGTTCACCACAAAAACTGCCTCAAGTCAAGAAGGAATGGAAACTCTGCGTGTCCTACGGCCCGCAAGGGTGATCAGTCACAGAGACCCTGGCGGCGCAGGTGGCCTCATGCAGGAGCACTGCCAGGTGTGAGGGACGGTCACCTCTGCTTTCCAGACTCCCGCAGAGGAAGAGGCTCAGATGTTCTGGGAATGTGAACTTGCTTCAGCATCCACAGCATTAATGTAACTCGCCACGTTACAGACGAAACAACAAGTCATCTCGTGACTGATGGAGAAACGCCACAACTCAACATCCATTCATGGCTAAAAACCCACAAAGGAGAAGTGAATAAAAGCAGCCACGAAAACAACCCACAGCCGGCATCGTGAGAGGCAGTGCGCGGGGTGGCGGGCCCTCCCTGCTGTGGGACCCCAGACCCAGGACAGCACTCGAGCCCGCCCAGCAGGGGAGAAAGGGATGGACGTAGAACCGGCAGAATCCCTAGATCACCCACAGGACGCGTCTCTGAGGGACCCGCAGACAGACGGGGAAGTACCAGTGCAGAGGTTGTCTGAGAAAGGTCAAGGTCACCAGAGTCCCACACTTAGCCACCAAGAGGAGGAAGTGTGACTTAAAAGGGCACCATTTACAACATCAACAAAAAGAAGTCACCTCAGAGCTGCAGCCTACAAACGCGCGTGGGGTCTGGCTACACAGAATCCACTGAAGCTATTCCAGGAGCCCCCAAACACACATGGGGTCTGGCTACACGGAACCGACTGAAGCTATTCCAGGAGCCCCCAGACGCGCGTGGGGTCCAGCCACATGGAATCCACTGAAGCTATTCCAGGAGCCCCCAAACACGCGTGGGGTCCGGCTACATGGAACCGACTGAAGCTATTCCAGGAGCCCTGAGCAGCTGCAGAGAGAAACGTGCGGTCCTGGCTGGGGGACGATCTGTGAGCAAGTCCGTTCTTCCCACTTAGATTCACGGCGACATCGATGCCCACAGGGAAATCACCTGATGGGCACCGGTGCCAGCCTCCAAGCAGCTAACGCGGAAAAGCCCGAGGGAGTCAGGAGCTGCTCAGGGCCCCGGCGGCCAGAGTGAGGGTCCTTGCTGGGGGGAGGGGTCAAGAACAGCACAGCCACCCTGGACACGTGCAGCTTCCAGTAAGGTGAATCACAGGCCTGCTCACGATACAGTAGCGCCCTTGAAAATACATCCACAGGATGACGAGATTGCACCTCTGCACGGCAGGCTGTGGTGAAAACCAGAAACTACCACACGTGCACAGACGGGACGGGTGAACCGACCGCAGGCACGCACCGTGAAACAGGACCCGGCCAACAACCATGGGCGCCCCCACGTGCACCAACGTGGCGTGGCACCCGTGCCTGCTGACGGAGCTTTGCCCCTCTAGGCGGCGGTGCTCTggcaggggtgggcagggcaggggaagggcgggggcaggggcgggcagggcagggGAAGGGGCGTGGGACACCCAGGTACATCTGTTTTCCAGAGCACGTGGAACGCCACCTGGACCTGTGCATTTTCCTGGCTGTATGTTACACCTCCATTGAAACAATCGAGAGAGAGAACCACCTTTAAAATCCCCACCACATTTTCCTTGGGAATTGACAGTCGGAATGTAGCGTTTACAGGGAAAAGCAAAGGCTCGGGACTGGCCCAGCCCCCCTGGAGGCAGCGTGGGGGTGCTCTGTCCTTCGAGGCGCCCTCAATGCAGGGGGCTTGTGGGGCAGGGATGGCGGTGACTGTGGGCAGGACGGGGCGTTAGGGGGTACCCGGGGTTCCGGGGGCTGGGGGAGGCAGCCCCTCACCCACATGGAGGCAAATGACCCTGGCCTCTCTCAGACCCTGGTTCCCCGTGGACTGACATGAACACTTGAAAGGAAACCTCTAGAATGGAAGAATCTTAGGAGTGGATCCCAGGAATGTGGGGGTGTCCACACAGGGCCTTGGCGTGCTGACCCCGTCCCACTGCCGAGCCCAGGACATGGCCGGGCCTCTCGCAGCTGCAGGAAACGCTCTTGGGAGGAGCCAGTCCTTGGAGGAAGCCTGGGAAGGAGACCCTCAGCCTGCAGCCCGGGACAGGGCTGCAGTGGGGCCCGTGACACAAACGAAGGCTGGGGAGGACAGGCTGTCCCCAAGAAAGGGGGCCTGTAATGCCCCAGGGTCCTCCCAGAGAGCGGGGCAGCCAGAAATAGGGCGACGGGCCAGCGTCTCTGTGGACACGGGGCAGGGCGGGCGGCGCGGGCTCACCTGGAACAGGATCTGCAGCACCCCGTGGATGATGCACGCCCGCCGGCCGAGGAAGAGGAAGAAGGGCACCAGGAGCTCGATGAAGTGGTTGCTGAGCGTCTCGAAGCGATGGAACCACCAGGGTGAGTGGTGCAGGTAGTACGCCACAGGATTGGGCATCGGCTGGGTCTGCAGGGACAGGAGGGGCCGTGAGGTGCCTGGCCGATCTCGGGGGGCGGGGCTAGGGAGAGGCTTGTGGGTCCCTGGCCCCCTGACCCCGGCTCCTACTGCACACAGGATCCCCCCGGCCCGCCTGGCCCTGCACACGTGGAGCCCACCTGCCACGCTAAGAGGGGCCAAGAGACATTCAGGGAGCTTTTGAAGCAAAAGCAAAGTGTTCATTTTTGTCTTAAAATCTTTACCATCTAAAAGCAAAGAATACACACCCCAGCTGAAGGAGAGACGACACCTGTAAACCCCGTGCCCAACTTGAGAACACAGGCAGTCGGAGAACAGGCAGTCGGAGAACGCGCCGCCTGCTGCCCACAGGCGGCCAAGCTGCAACCCCCAAGAGCCGGGGTCCACAGGCGGCCCCTCAGGCTCAGGATGCCCTTTCCCTGGGGATGGACACGTGGGTGGGGACGTGCCGGTTGGGGACCAGCAGGAATGGGGCCCGGGTCCCGAGCCCAGCTCAAGGCTCTAAGCGCAAGACCTGGCTGTGGGGACCTGGAAGCCTCCCAGGCCAAGGCACAGAGAAGTCCCCACACCTAGGGTCCCACTCAGCAGCCCAGCCAGGAGGAAGGGTGGGAACTTGCCCTGCACCATAATTCAAAACTATCAAggccaggcacggtggctcatgcctgtgatcccagcactttgggaggccaaggcaggcagatcacttgagcccaggagtttgaagccagcctggacaacttatcaagaccccatttctataaaaataaaaaattagctgggcatggtggtgcgtgcctgtagccccagctacccaggaggctgagtcaggaggatcgcctgaacccaggaggtagaggctgcagtgagccacgactgtgccacggcactcagcctaggcaacagaacaagaccttgtatcagaCAGTCGATCCATCAATCAAGTCAGAGTGGTTGTGCAGACTTGTCTGGAGTGAGAACACCCCACTGGCAAATGGGGCCCAGGCCCCCACACGCTGTTTTCTGGAAGCCCCCAACAACGGGATCCAGAGTGGCACTGCCAGGGCTGTGTGAGTCGGTGAGCCCAGGGTGGTGGTGGGAAGAGTGCCCTAGATGGACGATGCTGCACGCTCTGCTTGCCTTTGTGGAGGGGCCTGCCCGCATGCTGCTCAGGGCTGAAGGCCTTGCTAGCACAGCCCGCGGGAGCCATTGGGCCTGGCACAGCCGCAGAAACCCCACTAGGGACAACAATGAACACGCCCTGCAGGGAGGGAGGCGGCCCCCAGACGCTTCAGAATCCGCACCCAGGTCCTGGGACTCCCAGGGTCCAGAGAGGCTACGTGGAAGTCGGGGCCCCCAGGTGGCAGAAAGCGCACATAGGGGCTGTGCTGGGCAGCGCTTGCTCCGGGGTGGGGGTGTGGGAAGCGCAGGAGAGGCGGCCATGTGCACACCCGAGGGGGTGACCGGGCACAGGGCCCCAGTGCACCCCAAGAGCCGTGGGCTGGGGAGGGTCCTGAGGCCTCTGCTCATTTGCTTAGAGGGCAAAGAGTTATTTTTGTTTACACTGAGGCTAGGAGAAAACATCATGACCTGAAACTTGGCTGTGAGCCGTGAGGTGGGTGTGGCAGTGTCGCATGCTGCAGGCAAGGCCAGGAGTTCCCGTGCAGCTGGGACACTCAGCCCGCGGCCAGGGGAATGGTGGGTCAGGGCATGGCGGTGCTGCTGGCCCAGACCTCAGGAAACAGCCTGCAAACTTCTCCTAAAAAGACAATTTTAAATAAGAAAAACATGAGGAAAGAGTGAAGGGGATGACACCTGTTTAGGGACTTAGAAGGCAGCAGATCTTGGGGGAGAATGAGTGTCGTCTGTTAGGGCTTGAGTGCCCCATGTGGGACCCACCCCCTAGTGCCCACAGGGAAAAGCCAGAGAAGAACCGGAATGCCTGGTCTGCCACTTCCCTTTTAGGCTGCTTGTTGTGTGTTTGGGGTTGCGGCGAGACCCATGCAGGAGGCAGCAGGCTTGGCCAGGTGTTGGGAACAAGCATCTCCAGGGCTAGGCCCACACCCGAAGTCCCAGCTCTTGGTCTGGCTTTTGGGGTGGGGGACTTTAACCTCTCCTTCCCTCTTGCATGCTGGGGCTGCTGACGTGTGTCGGCTGAGCTCTGACGGGGAGGGGAGCGGGGGCTGCTTATGCTTATCAGGTGAGGGTCTTGGGATGAAGAAGGAGGTCCCATGTGTTCCAGGAACAAGCCAATCACAAGCGTCCCCGTGGGAAGCGGCCCTTGGATGTTTGTGTCCCGAAGTGGTAATTGCCACGGGCTCTCAGAACCTCACCTGGGAAAGGGCCACAGCAGGGACACAGTGCGATGCCTTTGTGGACGTGGAACCCCCACTTCCCACCAAGGCAACTGCAGATGGAGAAAAATGACACTGAGTGATAAAGACGGTGACAAATGTAACAGACATGGGGCTGACATGACCCAATGCTGTGTTAAAAAGAGAAGAGCATCAGGCTCAGCTGTAGTGGCCACTGCCCCTCCTGAGCATGGCtcgcctcccctggaatcccagccgaccttgggactcagctttggccaagagaatgcagcgtgagtgatgttctgaactttcaagctcagtccttgaagaggcagctccaaccccattaaaggtccctctactctgaggccaccaagctgtgaggaagccaatggtggccatgtggcaaggccaccgggagatgcactaggttccagtacaagtgaagccttcctggacctcccggcctagctatcagctcgtgaatgaccccacctgacaccacgtgcagcagaagagccacccaggggagcccataacaggaccaggagaaaGTTGCTACTGCTCAGGAGAAGAGCTGCCCAGCAGAGGCCATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGAAGCCAGCAAGCAGGGCCCATCGCAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCCGGCAGCAGAGCCCATCGCAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCTGCCCAGCGGGGCCCATCGCAGGACCAGGAGAAGGAGGAGCCGGCGGCAGAGCCTATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGAAGCCGCCCAGCGGAGCCCATCGCAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCCACCCAGCGGAGCCCATCGCAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCTGCTCAGCAGAGCCCATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCTGCTCAGCAGAAGAGCTGCCCGGCAGAGCCTATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGAAGCCACCCAGCGGAGCCCATCGCAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCCACCCAGCGGAGCCCATTGCAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCCACCCAGCGGAGCCCATTGCAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCTGCTCAGCAGAGCCCATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCTGCTCAGCAGAGCCCATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGGAGCTGCTCAGCAGAGCCTATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAATAGGAGCTGCTCAGCAGAAGAGCTGCCCGGCAGAGCCTATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAAGAGAAGCCGCCCAGCGAAGCCCATCACAGGACCAGGAGAAagaggagctgcccagcagaacctgtcacaggaccaggagaaagatgctgctgctctaagccactgaggcttggggtgtgttgggcaatagcagatctctgaaacaGCCTGAATCCAGAAGCCAAACAGTGTTGAACTCTGATGTTACTGGGAAAACCCCATTTTAGAGAAACCAAAGTAAAAGTCTTTCTGAGTCTTTGGGTAACAGATACTTAGTACTGACTCACACACCCTCCACCCCAGACAGGGCTCAGCACTCGTACCCGTGTAAGCCTCCTCACATCCTGgagaggtacagaaacaatatttgaagaaatattggccaaatattttccgaatgtaatgacaatgataaacctatagattcaagcaactcagcgaactccaagcacaaaaaatatgaggaaaacaacaccagataaccaaatGGTCACATTTTACTGCATGACAATATGACACTATTGATCACTTTGATTGTAGTTTGATTGACAAATAATCAAATTGTCACAAACTGCctataaatgttaattagatcatgttggttagtagtgtttttcagctcttttacatccttccttattttctatctacctgctttatctattattgaaatctccaactttatggatttgtctatgtctgcttacagttctatccatttttgcttcatgtcttttgaagctctattatcaggcgcatacgtgtttgagagtcttctgacctcctgataaacactgtgaaatggcctctttactcctgatcatattctttgctctgaattctgctttgtctggtgtgaaggtggccagtccagccttcttgtcactcattcacgtttttggtatgtttttccatcctttacctttcagcctgtgtgtctttgtatttgaagcggatctcttagaatagtaCTACAAACTAcacatcataatcgaatattgcttaaaactcgtgataaaaatcttacatgcaaataaagatgttacagagtatgtacataaggagttgtcacaggaaataatgcaaatgagacgagagtagagtacaatctttaaagtactaaacctgtcaacctagaattctatacccaacaacaatctctttcaaaaatgaaggtgaaataaagactttgtcagacattgacaagctgaaagaacttgtcaccagcaaacctatgctagaagaaatgtcaagtctgttaggtggagggagaatgatcacagatggaaacctggatctccacgcaggagtgaagagctctggaagtggtgaTGttaggtggagggagaatgatcacggatggaagcctagatctccacgcaggagtgaagagctctggaaatggtgaTGttaggtggagggagaatgatcacggatggaaacctcggtctccacgcaggagtgaagagctctggaaatggtgaTGttaggtggagggagaatgatcacggatggaagcctggatctccacgtaggagtgaagagctctggaaatggtgaTAttaggtagagggagaatgatcacggatggaagcctggatctccacgcaggagtgaagagctctggaaatggtgaTGttaggtggagggagaatgatcacagatggaaaaaagagctccggaaatggtaagtatatggatacacaatgaggctgttcttccaattgaatgaaatgtctctgaaagataactggactgtttaatcaaactgtttggcaataatagcaaaaggccaggagaggaaaatactgttgggagaatattgttgtaaaattctttcagcatttatgagataggcatagtataccttgaaggtgagctgtgatggattaaaggcatatactataaaccctaaaaccaccacacaaataagacaaaaaagttacagccaagaaagaaaataaaaaggagtcacaaaaatattcaattaatccagaggaaggtgtaaaataacagcaacaaaaaggaacagagaacacatgggaggatcagaaaacaaatcgcaagacaacaggctgaaaccttccccaggaaagactgcattggatgcaaacggcccagacacccagataaagggcaggacttgtcagactggatttaaacataagacccaagcatacgccagctctaagagatccgcttcaaacacaaagacacacacaggcggaaaggtaaaggacggaaaaacataccatacaaacacgagcgacgagaaggctggactggccaccgtcacaccagacaaagcacaattcagagcagagaatatgatcagcagtcaggaggccatttcacaatgttcatcaggaggtcagaagactctcaaacacgtatgtgcctgataatagagcttcaaaagacatgaagcaaaaacggatagaaatgtaagcagacatagagaaatccataattatagttggagatctcaatctcccttatctcaataattgataaaacaggcagaaaatgaggacgtacagaagagttgaaaaacactattggccaatttgatctaatgaatcctgacagaacactgtctgttcatttttggctcaaacggaactttcactaagacaaaccatattctgggctacagaacaaatctgactaaattttaaaagactcaaggcatatcaagtatattctgacaataaaggaattaaattagaaaccagtaacagaaagatatctggaaaatccccgtctctttggaGCCTTTAAGGAACTTTCATTCCAGTGCATGTTACGACATTTGATTCTCACAACCGCCGTAGGGTAGTGGGTGATCAGTTTAAAGCTGGAAAGACAGAACTTGCTCAGGATCACACAAGCCAGTAAGGGGCGCATGGAGGATGGGCAGCACAGGGCTGCATAACAACAGGGCTCAGATGCAGGCGCTGCTGTCCTTGGCTGCGTGGGTAGAACAGCCGTGAGCACTGCTGACCTTGAGGCGCCACCCCTGTCTCCCCCAGCCACGGCTTGTCCCTGGCAAGAGGACCCCAGGACAAGCGGGAAATCCAGGCCCACGGAAGGTCGGTGTCTCCTCAGGCCTGCACTCGCCCAGTGGGCTGCTCTGCTGAGTGATGCCAGGGCACGGGCCTGGGGCTTTGAACCGCGCCCGGCCAAAACCACCCTGCAGCGGGCCACCTGCCAGGCCAAGCCCCTCCCACCCGAGACCCCCGACATTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCGTTCCCCAGGCCCCTCCCACCCTAGGCCCCCGGCATTCCCCAGGCCCGGCACTGCCCTTCCTTCCCAGCCCCCAGCACACAGAGAAAACATTCTCTTCTTACAAAAACCAATAAAACAGCCAGGAGACAAGGCGAGAAGCCTCGGCTCCCAGCCGCCGGATGGGATTCAGGCGTGGTTCCCCTAATGGTGACATTTACAGTCTTCACGGGCGACGCCAACCTGGATATATATTATTTCCACATTAGCGGGCCCCCATATCTGAGGGCGCTTGGTGACCCACAGTCTGAGCGGGCTGGCAGCCCACGGCTCCTGGTCGCAGTTAAAGGCATTACAGGATCTCCTGGCCCAAATCCTTGCTGGGTGGGTCCTGGGACACCAGGAGGATAGAAGGTTGTGTTGAGCTTCCCTGTTGGGAGTCAGCCAGGAGCAGCCCCAGCCGCTGTGCTCTGTGTGAGCCTTGCGGGGGCAGGCTGGAAAGGGGCGCCTGCCTGACACGGGGATGCACCAGCCACAAGATACACTGCGTGGAAGCTGGCCGGGCCAGGCTGAGCACTTCAACACGGATTCCTGCAGCTCCTGCTGGGAGTGTTGGGGCACACGCGGTCTCGGTACCCGTGGGGGAGCTCGGCGGGCACGGGGGCGTGAGCCGAGGCTTCTGTCAGCAAGGCTGCTCTAGGCAGCAGGGCCATGTCCCTGGGGGGCGTCCACAGCAGCTCTGCACCCCCTCAGCCACTCCCACCCACGCCTGGAGGCCCCGCAGAACTCTGGGAGCCCAGCCCAGAGAGGGCTGCTCTGTGTGGTCCGCCCCACGCAGAGTGCGCGCTCCTAGCATGAATGGCCTCTAGCCTCCGAGAGCACCTCAGGGTGAGCAGGGTGGTCGCAGGTACCCTGGAAGGCATGGCCGTGGCCTGGGCCCGGAGTCAGGGTGCAGACAGTGACCTCAGGCAGGGGCAGTGCTTCCGGATCACTCTACTTAAGCAGTGGCCTAAAACTCCCCCTGCAGGTGTGGGAGCCCAGAGACGCACCCCCAAGTTGCAGGCTGCCGGCCACAGGCTGGGACACCCTTGCTCCAGGAGCGTAGGTGGCCCCAGGCAGATCCAGGGGACCCCCGCCCTGGTCAGGCAGCTCCCTGAGGGTCTGTGGTGCGTGGCCTGGGCCCCAGCGGTGAGTCGACTCTGGGGGGCTCCGTGCCCGTCACGGGGCCTGTCTGTAGCCCTGACAGCATCCTTCGGCGGACGGAATTGTAGTTCTCCACGACGTCGGCCCAAGCTCACAGACAGGCCCGGCCTCGGCCCAAGCCTTGGGGTGCAGGGGGTGGAGCTCAGTGGGGTACTCCTGCAGGCAGCAAGGGAAGTGGCCGTGGGTCCCTGCCCGCCCAGGCCCTGGCAGGGGCTGCCCTGTGCCGCGTCTGGGAAGTGGCTCCGAAAGGGGTGTGGAAGGAGCGCCGTGGGACTGAATCAGAGTGTTGGATTTCCCGCAGCTTTCTAGCAACAGAGTTATGTTCAACTCCCCTAAAAAGCAATGGAGAATTGTTTGCAACGTTCAGGGTCCCTGTACTCCAGATCCAGTGAGTTTTCTCTGCATCAAAACCATCTGTGGGAGTCCTCACTCCATCCTTCTTGATGACAGCTGACTTCCTAAAACCCAAGTGGAGAGAGAGGACAGGCCCGGATTTTCCATTTCAGCAGCTAGTGCCATCCCTGCTGCTAAAAGCAGCTGCGTGACCCCCACATTCACAACCTGCTGTTGCATCCGCGTCGTCAGGCAACCGCTCCGATGTGGGGACCGCAGCAACCCTCCCCACAGCCTGCTGCATTCTGGACGGCGCCCGTCCCTGGTCGACAGACGGAGCAGTGGCCATGCCCAGTCCAAGGCCAGAAGCACTGGGGGGGGTCCTAGGTACAGGGGGCAGTGTGTGGGGAGAGCGAGGACACCACATCTGGGGTGGGGTTTTAGGGACAGCTACATGGGGACCCCGGGAGAGGGATGCACAGGTGGGCAGCAGGGCCAGCCAGTGTCAGGCAGCAGCCATGAGGCAGAGGCGTCCTCAGCTGGGACAGGAGCTGCATCCCCCCTCTCCTGTGCTGCGCTGGCCCTGGGATCCTGGGGGTCCTCACAACGGTGCTGAGGACATGGCTCTGGTCCCTCTGCCGGCTGAGAGCAAGCGGCCGTCCATGCATCCCCGGTgtctcatgggagcgggcccttggcctgcggggtctgcactcaccctgggtagaggtcgtcagaactgagttagctgcagggcaccctggtggagtccacagagatctgggaacacgacgtgaggaaagccacaggcttgttgtcaggagtTTCAGGCAGAGCCACCCGGTCGCCTTTCACCCTCCAGGGGGCTGGCCCCTTCTCTTGGAACTTGGGGATGCCTTCCCTGCTGCTTCTGGCTTAACCGACTGAATTTGCCGGCAACTGCCTTTCGTTACCAGCAGATGAAAAAAGCggtgagtgtggggtgtgaggctgcggatggccatgggtgtgaggctgcggatggccgtgggtgtgaggctgtggatggCCATGGTGGAGCAGTTCCTTCTGGGGAGAGAAGTCTGCACACTCAGAGCTCCCAAGCCCGGAGGGAGGAGTCCCGAGGGAGGCATCCCCGGGGTGCATGGCTGCCTCTTGCTCTGTGCTGCTGAAACTTCCGGAGGTTTTCAGGCTCCTGAAGAGGCTCAGCGTCCCCTACAGCATAGGGGCAACTTTCCAAGAAAGGGGCACCCCCCTCTGACTCCTTATCTGACCAGCAAGAATCGGAAAGACAGCAAAAGGGCCTGAGATCCCCGCCCACAATGCTGTGGGGCAGAGGGCACGGCTCGGGGGTTGCAGGCAGGGGCCTGCCACCTTCCGGAATCAGGTCCTCCTTGGAGAGAGGATTCACGCAGGGCCCTGGGCTCGCAGTTGACACCCTGACTTCCTGAAACCTTCACCAGTGCCTCGTCATCAAGACACACGGGAGGGAGCATCCTCGTCCGAGACACAAGTCTGAGGTGAGAGGGGGGATGCAGCTCCTGTCCCAGCTGAGGACCCCTCTGCCTCATGGCTGCTGCCTGACACTGGCTGGCCCTGCTGCCCACCTGTGCATCCCTCTCCCGGGGTCCCCATGTAGCTGTCCCTAAAACCCCACCCCAGATGTGGTGTCCTCGCTCTCCCCACACACTGCCCCCTGTACCTAGGACCCCCCAGTGCTTCTGGCCTTGGACTGGGCATGGCCACTGCTCCGTCTGTCGAGTGGAGTCCAGGCCCCTGAGGCCGGTATATGGGCCATTCCTGCCCCAGGAGACACAGTGAACCGCAAAGAGCCGTGTCACGGCGGTCCACCTGCTGCAGGCACGGCGCCGCACTGCTCTGAACGCTCGCTACTCCAGGTACTCGCTCCTGGAGCCCCAAGGGGCCCCCGGGAAGCAAGAAAAGGGGCTCCTGGGCCCCGTCCCAACTCAGCGGGGCTCCCTCATGCCTTTTCAAGTCACAGTGGGTTTTGAAATGCGATTCCCCAAGGACAGCCTCCACAGCTGGAAGGAGCCGGCCCGGCCCCCCGAGACAGCAGCTGCTGCCAGAGCCTCACGCTGCCTGGCTTGGCCCTGGACCCCGTGTGACCATCAGGACATCAGGCTCATGGCTCTCTGTGAGCCAAGGCTCAGCCTGTCCTGGGATGTGGATGATAAGGGCCCTGACCTCACACACCCTGCACTCCAGCCTCAGTGTCTGGAGATGGGAGTGGCCTCAGCCACAATCCAACCTCCCAGGAGGCTCCACCTTCCAGAAGCTCAGCCATGTGGGCACAGGACCCCCCCATGTGTCTGGGcctcttttaaggacacagtcgttggatttggggctcagcagtccactctgacttcatcttaactaatcacaAGGAGGTCCCAGATAAAGCCACGCTCCAAGCTCCAGGGAGAGTGGGTTTGGGCCCTGCCTGCAGGCCCTGACACTGCTGCGGCCAACCCTCCGGTGGCAGTGACACCGAGGGTGCCTCGAGACATCCAGGGCCATCCCTCTGGCCCGGGCTGCCCCTGCCTGTGTGCTCCAGGCCGGGCCCACCCTGTCCACCGTCTCGGGCCATGTCTGAACTGGTGTTGACGGCTGACACAGAGCACTCCTCACAAACAGCACAGCAGAGAGCTCTGGTGAGGGGCAGTCCTGGGCCTTTAAGGCACAGGAAGAACTGGGTGCTCATGGGGGCGGGAGGGACCCACTGCATCCCAGCTGGCCACGTGGACACAGGGGAAGGCAGTGCTGACAGGCAGCTGTGGGCCCCCCCGGCCCGCCTCCCCAAGAGTTGCAACCTGCGTCCTCGCCGGAGTGCAGCTGTGGCATGACCCGTCCCCCAGAAACACCACACCCTGGTGGTCCTGGCCAGGTGAGTCCTGGGGATCCTGAGACACTCCTGGGCCCAGAGCAGCCACATTCACTGAAGGGATGCAGCCCAGGACGCCTGATGCCGGCTTTGAAATGCAGCCACTCCATAGAGAAGGCATCAGAGTGTTTGTTTGTGGGGACATGGTGGGCGCCTCAGCATCTCTTGCCAATGGAAAGCTGTGCGGGACGGTCCTCACCAGCACGCAGCCTTCGTGGACCTGAGCCCACTGCACCACTGCTGTCGCCACCGGTGCTGGGCCAGGGGGCTCAGTGAGATGCGCTATGGAGCTTCTGGCCTGGAGACAAGGGGTCCACCCAGCTTTCCTGACCTGTCCTGAGAGCATCTGGAGACACGGGACCCCCCCACCACTTTCCTGACCCGTCCTGAGGGTGATGGGGGAGACACAGGCCCCCCTGCCCACTTTTCTGACCTGTCCTGAGGGCATCTGGAGACACTGGTCCCCTCAGCTTTCCTGACCTGGGCTGAGGGCGCTGGACCTTATTGAGGGCAGGGTGGCTGGCGTGGGCTGCGGTGTGCACAGCTTTGTTGGCGAAAGCCTCTCACACACGTGTGCCCTGCGGCTGCTCCCCGTCACGGCTGTGTTGGGACCATCCAGCCAAAGAGCTGAGAGTGTTTACTTTCTGGTATTTCACAGACCGTCAGCTGAACCTGCTCTCGGACAAAGAGAGGAGCTCACGGGTCCTCAGCAAGGCGGGGCACTTGATGGGCTATGGAGACATCTCAAGAGCCTGAAGAATAAAGTCAGGACACAGCCACTAAATGCAGGCACAAACGCCTGTGCCAGGCCGGCACGTGGACCAAGACCCGGAATCGCAGCAGAGGCACCGCGTGAGGACGGTGCCAGCTCCACGCTTGGAGGCGGTGAGTGCCAGAGCAACCCTGGCAGAAAACGCAAAGGCAGTGAGACAGCCATCACTGGCTGTCGGCAGCAGGCAGACGATGATGGCTTCCGCGTGCAGGTGCGAGTGACGGGCCAAATGCAGGAAGGGGTGTCCAGGCCTGAGATGCTCTAGGTGCACCGTGGCCATGACCACACGGGCCCAGGGTGGGGATGGTGCTACCAGGAGGCTCCCACATGGACTGAGAACAAATGACTATCCAAGCTCCAGGCCCCAGACCACCCCCAGCCCCCACGTGAACACGTGAGCTCCAGGCCCCAGACCACTCCCAGCCCCCATGTGAACACGTGAGCAGTTGGCAGGAACTGGGGCGTCTGAAGGGACTCAGCCTTGGTCTGGGGGCCAAGCACAGTGGAACTGTGCTGTGGTTCACACCTGCCCTGTGGGACACACCTGCCCGTGTCCAGGTAACGATGGAGCCACAGTTCCGTGTGGCAGGGGCTGGGCACGCAGCCAGGAAGCCCCCAACAGGCACCTGTCAGGGGACGGTGGGGAGCTGTGGACTCCAGGAAGGAGGGGCCGGCCCGGAGGCCTGGGCAGGACCAAGGACAGCAGCGGAGGGTGCCCGTGCAGGAACCAGAGCAAACCAGCTGCACTCGAGACCATGGAGGGCCACAGACCCCGTCCCCGCAGCCCCAGCAAGCCCCCGTGTGACCACCCACCCCGTGAAGGGAGGGAGAGGACGTCCTGAATCAATGGGGGTGACCCTGTGATGCGACAGCTCACCAGGGTGTGCAGGACTGAGCCCCGCCAAGAGTGGGAACGGGGCGGCGTGAGACCGGGTGCCCTGCCCTCACGCTGCACGGCACGCTCACCTCATAGTGGAAGTCCATGCAGGTGAGGTCTCGCCAGCACCGGTCCCCCCGGATCTTGATCAGGCCCTGCAAGGAAGAGAGCAGAGGGAGAGTCAGTCACAGGGGCTGGGGATGCGGCGGCCCCGACAGAAACAGCTTCCCAGGAAGACGAACCATCCACGAAGGCCGTGGATCTGGGCTGCAGGCGCTGTGAGGGAGGGGACCTTACGTATGAAACACTCAGGAAGGCAGAATTTGAGAAGGGCAGATTCAGGGCTGCTTTGAGGACAGGAGTTTAGTGCACACCGCGGGCGTGAGCAACAGTGGCTTCCTTTGCGCCTTCCCCAACACTCATTCTCAGAGCTCCACGCATCATCACGCTACAGAAGTTGCGTGTCTTTAAAGAGGACAAATGCACCACGCCCTGCACAGACCCCACGGACAGTGTCAGAGGGAAGCTTCTCAGTGCCTCCAGGATGAGCCCAAAGTCGGAGGGAGCACCCAGTGCACACGCGTCTCAGCCCCGCCCCCTGCGGCACAAAGGGAGCCGAGGCGCAGGCCCCGTGTGTCTCCCACACACTGCAGCTCGCCTGCTGTGAGGACTCCTGGGGCACGGGACAGGCTTCCAGGGGCCTGCAGAGGGAGCCGCCAGCACTGGGGAAGGTGGGACTTGGGCAGAGAGGCTGCGGGGCTGGGGGTTGGTTCTGCAGTGCCAGGGCCACAGTGAAGCATCTGGGGAAGGGTCGGCTCCCACACCCGTCTGCTTTCCCTGGGTCACTCCCGGCTTCAGATGATTCCTTCACAAGTCAGAAACAAACTGTCCCCTCTTCCCGCTAACCCTAAAATCACCGCTGAGACACAGATTCACATCCAGCGTCTCTCACACACTGGTGCATGGGAGGTGAAACTGCACAGATGTGGAAGTGAGTCCCGCCTCCTCCATGACAGGGGTTTCTGCTGCACAACCACTCCCGGCCAAATCCCCTGGGCTccatccacctgtccaccccactgtccacccacccgtccccctgtccaccgggccgtctgcccactcgtcccctgtccaccagaccatccgcccacccgtccccctgtccaccgggccgtccgcccacccatgcccctgtccaccggaccgtctgcccacccgtcccctgtccaccggaccgtccgcccacccgtccccctgtccactggactgtccgcccacccgtccccctgtccactggactgtccgcccacccgtccccctgtccactggaccgtccgcccacctgtccccctgtccaccTGGCAGTGCGCCCACCCATCCcctgtccaccggatcgtccacccacccgtccccctgtccaccggaccgtccgcccacctgtccccccgtccacctggccatccgcccacctgtcccctgtccactggaccgtccgtcgactcatcccctgtccacctggccgtccgcccacccatccccctgtccacccgACTTCTACCTGGCACATAAGTACTGAGTGCCCTTGAGGTGCCGGGCCCTGCTCCACCCCATAGAGGCCGCATGCTGCAGGCGCAGGTGCGACAAGGCGCAGAGAGGAAGGACGGCCACCAGTCGTGGCAGACGCAGTGGCACATAAAGGACAGGAATCCATGCTGCAGGTTCGGAGGCGATGGCTGTGGTGGGTGTAGCATGGTGGGCTCTGGGGCAGCCGCACTGGGCTGCAGGTAGCGCTGTCTCACTGTTGCCCACACGGTGGGAAGAGGGTGAGGGTCTCTCTGGGGACACTTTCGTAATGGCCGCCTCCCATCAGCGAGTGCTCCCCTCCGTGGGCGTGCTGGGGTGTCGGGCCTGGCTCCTGGTACCATGACACTGGGCTCAGGGTTTCCACACGAAATGGAATTCGGGGAACACGATCTGTTCACAGCGGAGGCCAGCCTCGGCCCGGACAGAGCTGACAGGGCTGTCCTGGGCAGGGAGCCCCGGGGCGGGGTGGGGATGGCCACGAGGGAGGAAGACAGGGTGAGGGCGCCCCCCTCAGGCAGAAGCGTGGGGTACAGCAGGGCTGAGGAGGCCGCGGGGGGAGGCCCAGGAGCCCCTGGAACGCAGGGTCCCATCTGCCACGGCGCCAGTCGCGGTCCCACTGCGGGAGACTGGCCTCCAGACGGCGGGGGGTGCGGCCTGAGGCCTGCCGGGGCCATCAGGACCTCCAGAGCAGGGGCCGGAGCTGCTGTTGGGATGGAATTTCCTCCTCTCCAGGGAGCCCCAGCTCCAGCCTCGGTCTCCTGCCTGGTCGGGTCAGCCTCGGGCTCCCAGTAGAATCCTCCTCCCCAGGTCAGCCCATCACGGGCTGTAGCCACGTCTGCGAAACATTAATACCTCCCAGTAGCACGGAGGCCAGTGTTTGGTGATGGACCAGGGACCCCAGGCCAGCCAGGCCAACAGAAAACCAACCACACACGGGAGGGCCTTCGGGGCGGCCGTGGGCCCCTAGCCGGGGCCAGGCAGGACGGGAGCCGCCGGGTTCTCTGGCTACATGTGACCGAGAAGGCAGCAGGCTCTGCTGCTGTCTGTGCAGGACGACCTGGGCAGGGGAGGGGCGTGTCCAATTCCAACGTGTTTGGAACATGGGGCTCGCGAGACTGGCGGGGGAGTGGGAGAGCCAGGAGAGGCTGCACCGCGCCCTGAAGGACGGCACGTGGCTCAAGTGACCGATGCCGAGAGGGACACGAATGAGAAACGGCAGGGGAGTGGGACCAAGAGCCCAGCCCGGCCCTACAGGAACACCAAGCAACAGGCACCCTGTTCCTCACGTCACGTGAGCCAGACGGGACACCACCCACATGCAGGCTGCACGGTCCACACACACGCCTCGGAGGGGTTGTGAGGCTCAGCCACCCACACGCAGGCTGCACGGTCCACAGACACGCCTCGGAGGGGTTGTGAGGCTCAGCCACCCACACGCAGGCTGCACGGTCCACAGACACGCCTCGGAGGGGTTGTGAGGCTCAGCCACCCACACGCAGGCTGCACGGTCCACAGACACGCCTCGGAGGGGTTGTGAGGCTCAGCCACCCACACGCAGGCTGCACGGTCCACACACACGCCTCGGAGGGGTTGTGAGGCTCAGCCACCCACACGCAGGCTGCACGGTCCACACACACGCCTCGGAGGGGTTGTGAGGCTCAGCCACCCACACGCAGGCTGCACGGTCCACAGACACGCCTTGGAGGGGTTGTGAGGCTCAGCCACCCACACGCAGGCTGCACGGTCCACACACACGCCTCGGAGGGGTTGTGAGGCTCAGCCACCCCGCGCACTGTGAAGGCTGCCTCTGGCGGGGCCATGTCTGGGTCCGGCATCGCCGTCTCTAGGGTCTTGCTGTACGTCCCTGCCCTCACATGCCCTGTGCCCCCAACGACAGGGAGGGCGCCGAACACCCGGGAGTGTTACTGTTTAAAGACCTGAAGGGTGAACTGTTTTAAAAACTGAGAGTCAGGTCTTCTGGAGGCTGGGTTTGCTCAGATCACAAAAGCACCGGAGACTGTTTCCCGCTTGGGCTCCTGTTCTGCAAACAGGCATGAAAACAGCCGAGGGTGTCCAGCTGACCGGGCGGAGAAGGCCCCACTCCTCAAGGCGCTGCCCACACCCAGGGGAGCTGCTGCTTCTGATGAAATGCACGGCTCCACCGGGCAGGGGCACAACCACCGCCACTGCTCCCCCCGCATGAGCACCAGCTCTGCTCCCTGCAGAATCCGAGAGTGGAACTCTATGGAGATTCAAACCAGGAAAAGAAGAAAAAAACAAAATAATTAAAATGTCATTCAAATTCTAAGCTGATATGAGACACTTAAAAATCTGAAAAATTCTTTCAGGAGTGGAGGATAATTATATTCCTCCCATCTATTGATTTCTCTCTACATTGCACATGTCAGATTTTCCACGGATTTTTTTTTCTCCCAGAGCAAGTGTCAAAGGAACAAAGCCTTCTTTGAGGCTTTTCAGCCCAAAATTAATTCTAAAAAAAAAAATGGCACAGACAGGCCAATAAACGCACCAGACCCAAAGGGAGCCGGGGACCCACACTGCCCGTGCCACCCTCCCGCTCTGCTCGGAATGCCAGAACTTTCCAGGCCCATCGACGATGTTCCCGCCTTGCAACGTGTGGCTGCAGCAGCTCTTCTCCTGATGCCTGTGTGTCCTGGGACACACTTCCCCAAATCTGCCATCTGGAAACTCGAAGTGTCTTGACGGTCGTATGCGGAGAAGGAGACACTCTGTGGAGACCCCGCTTCTCTCACTTGGCCCCCAGAGGCCGCCATCCACCCTGCAGCGACAGCCCCCTGTGTACCCTTGCACAGTGGCTCAGGACAGACCCCCAGCCCCTACAGTCCCCGAAAGCACCGGCTAACGTGGTGTTTGAGGAGGGGGCGCCGCCAGGCCTCCCTCCGAGCCACAACCTCCTCCATCCTTCTGGCGTTAGGGTCCCCTCGCCTGTATCAGTGGCCCTTCCTCCCCACCTGTAAACACAGGGAATTACTCGCGACAGGTCCTGCCTCCGCAGGAGAGACTCAAAGGGGAGAGCTTTGTCCTGGAGTCAGGTCACAGCCCAGTGCCCCTGTGAGCAGCTGCAGGGGTCTCAGACTTGTTGCAACAGCCACTGCTTCTCCCCGAGTGCTCTGAGAGCTGGGGGTGGGTGGAAACCGTGTCTCAGGGTGAAGGGACCGCTGGTGGGCTCCGTGGGCAGAGGCACTATGGGGTCTATCAAGACCCTCTAGTCTCCATATCTGAGGGTGGCCCAGCTGCAGCAGGGGTGGTGCCTGGGGTCCCGCCTGGCTCCGTGGCTTTCCTGTCTTCCTGGGATGGTTTCCGCACTTTCTTGCCCTCATGCAAGAGAGAACTGGCATGGGAGGTGGGCTCCGCCCCCGAGTGCTTCAGCTCACGCAGACTTCCTTGTGGCACAGCTGCACCAGGAGCTGTGTACATGGCAGGCATCCTCTGCGTGGTGGGCGCCTTCTGCGTGGCGGGCGTCCTCTGGAGGAGGGGCCTCGCCTCTGGGCCACTTCATGCCTCAGAACAGTGGGCTGAGCATCAAAGTGAGGTGGGCCAGGGTCTCCATGGCTCCTGATGAAGGGGACCCAGGTCCCCCGTGGCTTCACATTGAGGACAAAGCTCTTCCCTCAGACACGCAGCTGACTGGCTCATCGACACTGGCTGGGCTCTAACTTGCAGACCAAGGGACCTGGACCTGGACAAACGCCCTGGGCTCGCTTGCTGCCTGGAAGTGAATTCCCATGAGTTTGAGGGCAGCTGTTTCCTCCCCAAGCACCTGGAAAAGGCTGTCCCAAGCTGACAGTCGGGCCGCCGCAGAGCCTAGGGGACCCACGCTGCGGGCAGGGGCACTGACTTTCTGACCAATGCCAGCCGGGAGAGCCTGGGCTTCCGGGATCTAAGGCCTGTTCTCAGAGGCTTGTCTGTCTGAAAACACCTGAACTGCTCCTTCCCCCGGCTCTGGGTGTCCTTGAGGCCTTGGCTGCTGGGGCCTGGAGCAGCCCAGGTGGGGGCAGAGCCAAGGGGTGGCAGCCAGGCCGTGTAGGGGCCAGGATTTGGGGCACATGCTGTCAGGTCACCAGACACCATGAAGACCCCAAGAATCACCAGGCCTTGGCAGCTTAGTCGGGCGAGGGGAATTAAGAGGAGGGCAGTTCATCTCCGAAGCACAGGTCTGCTGTAGACTCTCAGCCGCCTATCTCTCTGACGGGATTGGTTTGCCTTCCAGAAGTTGCTGCCCTAGTCACCATACCATGTAAATTCCTCTTGCTGTGATCACGGTTTTAACTTAGAAATCAGACAGAGCAGATTTTGGACTTACTGTATTTTTATTTTTATTTTTTGGCAAACGACGTGCACTTCAATAGAAACCTTCGGCGTGAACCCAGAAAGGCGTGTTCACGGTAAGCACAGGGGCTGGTTCTGTTACCGGGAGATCGCTTGAGCTGAACTGTGCGGTTGGGAAGAGGAATTACTAATGCTCTTTGTAGCAGAGTTTTATTTTGCACCCCCACAACCCAGGAGATCCTTTGAAGATCACAGGAGAGCACTGTCCTGTGTGATTGTCCCAGGGGCTGTGTGACGGGCTGTGCGGGGATCTGAGACACCCTCGCCCTGGAGGCTGATGCGCTTCAGCCGCGAGGAGCACCCCGGCTCCTGCCCCAGCTCTGCCAAAAACGCCGGAGGTCGGAGGCACAAAGCGCTTTCAGGGACTCCGGTCTGGGCCTCGGCCTCACAGGGGGCTGCAGCTGGGGGCCAGAGATCAGGATGCCATAGATATCATTTTCTAAAAATTCCCACGACGCCTCCGTGCCGGAGTCAGAGGTCTGCCCCTTCCGGGTGGAGCATGTCGCCCTGAAGCCGATGGGCCCTGAAAGAAGCCCCTTTTCCTCTGAGCTACCCGAGCTGCCCCCACACTGATGCAATAAAGCAATTAGGATAATTACTCTCGTTCTGGAGTGTGGCTGCCCAGGACCAGGGCGGGCCTGTCAGGGAAACGGCAGCACATCTGCCTGATCCTGGCCTCACAGGGCTGCATGCCGATACCAATTCCATTACGTTTAATGTGATTTCATCAGTGGCTCTGATGCCAAGCAGCAGCCTGTGGACTTCAAAGTCAGGTCTTGATGTCGGCAGCACCGCTCCACGTCTGCCTTTCAGCGCCGCCCATGACCCACACCTCCCATGGGCTGCGGACCCTCTGGCAGGCTCGGGGGTGAAGCATGCTCGGCGTAAAGCGCTTTGCAGACAGTCCTGGGCCTGTGGGAAAAGAGCAGATGACGAAGGCGCAAACCTGTTGAGCCCCTGGCACCTTCCTTCCGACCCCACGAGGCTTGGGGTGGCAGCACACACGTGGGAGGCACACGCCCTGGACGCCGGATGTGCCGTGCCCGTGAGGGTCGGAGGCTCCACTGCACGATGCCGCACACTCGGGCCTGAATCCCACAAAAGGTGAGCAGGTCTGGGTGTAAAGAGAGATGTGGGGCTCAGCTCCGACACGCGTCCCAAATCCTGGCTTTCCTTGAGTAAAGAAGTCACTGCACCCGGCACTCCCCCGCACCCTTCTTCAAGGGTTTTGTCCATCTCATCTAAGTTGTCACACTGACTGGCCTAAGGCTTCTGTAACATCCCAGGCAGCTCTTCATGGTGCCATCTTAGTTACTGGAGTTTCCACGGTGCCTGCAATCACACAGCCTGGCTATGGCTTCCTGGCCTTTGCTCGATTCTGACCCCAAAATGGTTCACACTGTGGGCTTACGTATTCCACATTTCAGCCGTTGCTTTTTCTTCTTGTGTTAATGAGGACCAAGACAGTTTGCACACAAGGAGCATCAGAAGGCCCTACCTCTGGGTGCTGTAGCCAGGTGTGAGCCCTCCAGAGCCATGAGCCACACAGGTGTGAGCCTCGCAGAGCCGTAAGCTGCACAGGTGTGAGTTTGGACATCttattttatttattttattattttCttttcttttttcttttcttttatttttttgagctggagtctcactctgttgcccaggctggagtgcaatggcacgatcttggctcactgcaacctccgcctcccaggttcaagcaattctcctgcctcagcctcctgaataactggaattacaggcgcccgccagcatacctgctaatttttatgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtgttttagtacagacgggatttcaccatgttggccaggctggtctcgaactcctgacctcaggtgatctgcccatctcagcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggtgtgagccactgcacccggccAGACATCACGTTTTAACTTTGCCAGCTTTTGGAATTATGAGTTCTCTGGCTTCTCTTTATCCTCCCGTGGGCCTGCGATGCCTCTGCCAGGCAAACACTCACACCAAAGTGGGCTCCAGCAGGAATGGGGAGACAGTGGCGGTGAGCATCTGCACACCTGCAGCCACCCCAGGACAGCCATGCAGACGTCCTCTCCAGACAGAAGCCAGGTAGGGAGTCGGGGGAGGGTTGGGAGGGGGAAGGTACAGAAAACAGATTTCCAGCTTTTCAATTCTCCAGGGGTCAAACTAAAAATCAAGTGGTCTCCTCTACTGATATTGTCCAGGTCTGAGAATTCCCAGCAACAAGGACCCTGGCTCAATTCCCAGAACATACGCAACCGAGACCTCTGCACCCCAACACAGCCCAGTTCATCAGGAGGAAGTGATCAACGGTGGTTTGGCTCCAGGGGGCGTCACGGAAAACCCACCCTCTGCCCCTGTGCAGGTGGCACAGAGGTGCCGGGACACAGAGCTGTGGGGCTCCACCTACAGGGATCTGCTGCGTGCTGGCCACAGAGTAGGCAGACCCACCCCCGCCCTGAGATGCCGATGCTCTGTCCTCACAAAACCAGGATGGGGAAAGAAAGGGGAAATTATTTTTTAAAATAGCGTCATTAAAGGCCATCTGTTGCCTTCAACGCTGTGACTTGATGGCCACGCCATTGATCACGTCCTGAGTGAAAGAGACCTTCACTTTGACACGACTGAAATAAACTCATTTAAAGCAGAAAACCTGGCCGAAACACGGGGGAAATGCTCCAGGGCTCCAGGAGAAGCCGTCTGTGCGTGCAGCCCCGGTGGGATGTAGGCTGGAGACAGCCCTGAGTCAGGAAGTCCGGCGAGGCCATCTGGGTCCACGTGGCTTTTTGGTGCTGTCCCCGCAGCTTGAGGCAAGGAAGGTGGAGAGGCGCCGCCTGCCCCGCCTGTGTCTGCAAGGAACCGTGCTGACTCCATGATGGCTCTGGCCCAGCCCCAGGAAGCCATGACCCGCACAACCTGAGGATCCACGAAGCCCAGCCAGGGCCGGCCCCGAACCGGGTGGAGAGCAGTGGGGGGTGGGGTGGGGGTGGTTCTTGTTTCAGTGCAGTCAGGTGGCAGCCAACCCACACATACAGCCAGCCTGGCCACCAGCACTGGGGCCCTGTCTGTTGCCCCAACCCGCTGACACCCTGTGGCAGCGGCAAGCTCAGCTATCCTGTGCATGGCACGGACATGGGTTGGGCTGAGGATGCCCACTGCCTGCCGCTCCAGGGCCTGAGGGGAGCTCTGGGAGCCAGGCTTGCTCTGCCACACGCCTGGGGTGGACAGCCCTGGGCCAGCGCAGCAGCCGGAGTGAGACGGAGCAAGTACAGTGAGTGCCAGGCTCTGCTCCAGCCCCCGCAGGCCGATGCGTCTGGCCTGGCATTCTCCCTGACTTGTCAGCTTCCCAGCTCAGAGCCCTCACCTCACCTCACACTCCTGGACATCAAGGGGCACCAAGAAGCCACTGAGGGAACACAGCGTCCCCCGCCTTGCTGGAGCCCACGAGAGGATGCGGCTTCCTGCAGCTGCGCCCTGGGGGCTGCCTGTTTCAGGCTCTGGCTCTGGCTGGGCTGATTGTCTTTCCAGGGCTCAAAGCACATGGTTTTCATCCGGTGCTCAACCCAGGGAAGGCCGAGGACAGTCTGGCTCAGTGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACTCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGATGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACTCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACTCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTATCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTTTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTTTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTCGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGATGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTATCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTTTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGGGGACGGCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGGGTGACCTCTGCATCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACCGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCTGTGAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACCGCCCACAGGACACCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACCGCCCACAGGATGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCATGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCGTGGGGACGCCTGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGACCTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGCGTGGTGGTGAACTCTGCACTGCCCACAGGACGCCCGTCTCTGCTGTGTGGTGGTGACTTCTGCACTGCCGTTCTTGTGAGGAGGAAGTATCTCAGtttaatttcagctgttcttggggggaggaattgtctcaatgtagatacgctcagcatttccctaatagccagtgcatctgagggatttttcaagtgccgtgagagccatttgcatgtttccttttgtgaagtgcctgctaaaatcctttccctctttaaaaaatcaaattatctttattattgaactttatgaattctttatgtattccagatacaggttccttgtcaggcataatggcattgtgaatattttctcctgatctgtgccttgtcattttctcggtggtgtcttttgaagaacagaagactttaattttgaggaagtccaatgtatgtgtttgtttctttttctttcagggtctcactatgttgcccagtctgggcttgaactcctgagctcaagggacgctcctgcctcagcctcctaacatgctggtgttaaaggtgtgagccactgcacccagccattttcttcttttatggttaatttttttgtgtgtcctaagagacttttgcctatcataacattacaaaatattctatgttaccttcaagaagtgttaatggttttagcttttatgtttgcaatccatctcaaattaacgtttgtgtgtggtgacggaggggggttcacttatccaggtgcatatccagaacttccagcaccaactggtgcaaaggcttctttctctcagttgaattgacttggtggcttgtccaggaatcatttgatcctgactttggtgtgggactatttcttggttctctattttgCGGATGCAGCTATCTGTCCTCACGCCTtgtgatggttaatactgagtgtcagcttgattgggttgaaggatgcaaagtactgatcctgggtgtgtctgtgagggtgttgccagaggagattcctgtttgggtcagggggctggggaaggcggacccaagcttaatctggtgggcaccatctcatcagccgccagagaatataaagcaggcagaaaaaggagaagaggggagacgggcctaccctcccagcccgcatctttcttctgtgctggacgcctcctgccctcaaacatgggactccaggttcttccgttctgagactcgggaccggctctccttgctcctcagcttgcgggcaacctatcgtggggacttgtgatcgtggagttaatactcaataaacccctttatatatatatttctcctgttagttctgtccctcgagggaaccctCCACacacctgtgtcacactgtcttcattacgatcatttttcagtaaatcctggaatcaagtagtgtgactcctcctgcatctttattcttcttcaaaattgttttggctatgtaggtccttggcatttccatatacatctaagagtcagtttatctgtttctggaaaaaacaatccttctgggattgcttgggatgtcatggaatctatagctcaaattggtgacgatggacagtttaacaatatgaagactgattcatgaacatggtatacctctccatttactgaagtgttccttactttcagcaatgtgtgctatctttcgaggcatacaggctgcatttcttttgttaaaatttcctattttatggttctgaatgttattataaatgctatacttaacattttcattttgacattttctcccagcatatagaaatataactgatttgccaggtgtggtggctcacgcctgtaatcccagcactttgggaggctgaggcaggtggatcacaaggtcaggaggtcgagaccatcccggctaacacggtgaaacctagtctctactaaaaatacaaaaaatcagccaggcgtgatggcaggttcctgtagtcccagctactcgggaggctgaggcaggagaatggcgtgaacccaggaggcagagcttgcagtgagccgagatcgtgccactacactccagcctgggtgacaaggcgagactccatctcaaaaagaaaaaaaaaaaagaaatacaactgattttgtgtGGTGGCCTTGAGGCCTGCAGCTGACGTCCAGCTCCGGCGGGCACAGAGGCTGTGGCTTCTCCTTCCCTTCTGCTTGGCACCCTCATCGGGAGGGCCACGGGGCTCCCCCTGAGATGGCTCTGAGGAACCCAGTGGTTAGGGCATCTGAAACCCTCCAGGCCACAGAACCACAGGTGCTGGTTTCTGAGTGAATCCGCCAAGCTGACGGTGCGGCGCTGGTTGTGACCCAAGTGCGCGAGCGGGGGAAGGGGTGTGCGTGCCTTCCTAGCCGGCTCTGTCCACAGGGTGGTTCATCAGCAGGTGGACACTCTGCTGCTGTCACTTTCTTATCAACTCACCCTCTGCTTTCCACCAAAGGAACATTAATCACACCCAACACAGGAGTCTATCAAGTAATTATACCTTTTAGTGCACCTGATAATTTCTTCTCCAGCTGGCACTAGCAATCAATCAAAATGCCATAAAAGGTGCTTCCCATGAGCAGATGAGTCCCTGCATCCACTAGGCATTGTGGGAGCTGTTCAACTCTTGGCACCAGGAGCTTTGCATACAACCGCCTGGCGGCTCCTCTGCGGGGCCGGCTCCTCTCCCTGGAGCTCTGCTTCTCTCCCAGGGCTTCGGCCTGACAGCGCTTCCCCCACCCGGCTGCTGTCCACAGAGTCCTTGGAAATGCTGCATCCACATCTGTGCATATTCAAGCCAGCAGAGGGTGGAACCTAAAACTAAGCCCTGGAAAGATCAGGACCCACAGCCTGTGAGAATATCTGTATTCTGGCTGGAGACAATGAAGAATTTCAATGTTCCATTAAAAGGAGCCATGGAAACATCTCTAGTATTTCTAATTAAATGGAAAAGTAAACCCGGAGACAGCATCCCACTTTCCTGCGCGATCTGGATGCCGGGTTGCAGCTATGCCCTCCTCCAACAAGCCATGGCCAACTGTCTGCAGCCACTCACGCACCCCTCAGCCAGGACCCTGCCCGACACCACGTCCAGAAAGCTCTCCAAAGACCCCACCCACCCATGTTTCCCTCCCGCTGTGCCATGGCCCCGAGCACACCCGACCAGGCAAGGAGGCAGAGATGGGAAGGCCCTGGCCCTTGACAAGCCCTGGGGGCCTGCTCGTGCCCTCGAGGGGATGGGGCAGGTCAGGCCCTGCTGCCTCCAGCTGCTTCCAGTGCCCTCCCCAGACACCTGGCCTCGTGGACAGAGGCTGAGCTCACCAGCCCAGAGGTCACCAGGCTGCAGCATGCGGGAGCGGCTCCTGGGAGGCGGAGCCAGCCCGCAGGGTTCACACAGTAAAAACAGTGAGGACCTAGAGTAAGCACCCAAGACTCCCCACAGCCCCAGAAAACCAACCTGTCAGGGATGCCCCGGTGCCCGCCATCCACAGGTATGCAGTGACATTGCGGACGGGTGCCCACCACCCCCGTGCGGCTGGGGCAGGAACACCTGGGTTGAAGCTGGCATGCCACAGAGGGCAGAGAGGAAAGCTGGAGGCTCCCTGCCTGGGACAACCCTCTGGACACCTTGTCCTGGGGGGTGAGAGGGGCCCTGGTGTTGAGGTCCCTCTCTGTGGGTCTCCTGCTAGTGCAGCTGAGCCTGCAGTGACCCCTCCCAACCCCGGCAAGTGCTCATCATGAGAGGCCATGTAACCCTCCCAGAAAAGGAATAAAGGGAATTAGGTGCTCGCATACCACCAGGGAGCACCTCAAGAAATGGCCAGTTCACTCCATGCATGGCTGACGTTTCTGCAGCACTGGCTAAGGGCTGGCGCAAGGTGAGACGCAGGGATGTGAGTGAGGGGGAGGGAAAAGGAGGGCGCTGGGGAAGATGGGAGCCACAGGGGGACAGAGCCCCGAGCTGAACGAGATGGAAAGAAGAGCTATGCCCAGACATGGACGTTACGATGCAGGGAACACACGGTGAGGAATGGGCCCAGACAGCCCCTCACAGTGCACCAAAGCACACTAAacactacaccaagccacgccacacagaaccacgctatgcgctacagcgagccacgccacacagaaccacgctatgcgctatactgagccacgctacacagagccacgctacacgctataccaagccacgctatgcagaaccatgctacacgctacagcaagccacgctacacACTACACTGAACCATGCTACACGCTACACCGAGCCACACTTCATGCTACATGATACCCCAAACCACGTGGAGTCATCGCTTCCTGAGTCCGTGGCCAGTGCTGTCTTAGGACTGGGTGTCCCAAGTGTCCGCAGCTGCCCCGGGGGGACAGGGTGGGAGGAGCCGCCCAGCACTCGGGCCCCTGCCTGCGGCATGACCTGAAGCTGAACACAGGCACGGCAGCCACGCCTCGAGGCCAGGGAGAGAAGAGGAACGTTCCGGACTGAAGGAGTGGCCGAGACGGCGGCACACTCTGGCCGTGGCCCTGGCGTGAGCGCGCTGTCGGGTGGGGCAGGCACAAGTTCCTTGGGGCAGTGCCCAACTCTTCGTACGTCTTCAGCGAATCCTCCACGAAACACTTAAGCAAACAGATGCTCAGAGAGCATATCTGTACGACATGGTTTCCAACACAAAAACATGAAGATTTTATCATTCCAGCCCAAAATGAAAATCTTACTACCAAACCACGTGAAGCGGAAGAGCAGGTGAGAGCTGCGTAGCTCTGGTCAGTGTGGCAGACGTCAAAAGGACCACGTCGCTCCTGCTTTTAAAGTGCACATCGTGTTTTTGTGAACTCAGAGGTCACATTACTGAAGCTGAACAGGGGGTTGGCATGTGATTCACCGTTTGCAGGGCAGACGCAGATGAGCAGCCCCTGGCTGGGCAGGAAGCACGCACAGCCCGCCGCCCCCACACCAGGGCCCAGGAGGGAACCCGCCACCCCCACCCCGGGGCTCAGCAGGGAACCTGGACAGTCTGGTCGTCCTGAGAGACGTCAAAGCCAAGCAGGCAAAGCACCCGGGAGGAAGGACGCAGCCAAGAGACCATGAGGAGGCCGCGCTTTCCCTGAGCGTCAGGACGGCGGGTCTCATACCTCCCTCACCCTTGAATATGTCTGCCAACGCGCCCACCATGGCCTGAGACTCTGTCATTTAAAAACGAGCTCTGAAATATTTCGGACACTCCGGGAAGCAAAGGAGGGCTGGTGGGGGAAGCTCAGGAGGGCTGGTGGGGGAAGCAGGGCGTCCAGTGCTCCTCTCTGAGTCTCCTCCTGAAACAGACTCAGAGGTGTGGTTCTGTCCCAGAAACAGGGATCATGAGCATGCCCGGGAAAAGCCAGCCGGTCCCCAGCATTCAAACACAGGCCCCTGAAGGGGCAGAAGAGTGCGCAGCTGGCCAGGCCAGGCCGACAGGAGGACAGAGGGCGGCGGGGGAGGAAGGAAACAGCCTCACCTCTCCTAGAAGCCTCACAGGTTAGAAGAGCCACCGTTATTCCCCAAACACCACGCAGAAGAGCTCCACTTACTGCTCCAAGCATGATCCTGAAGATCAGCCACCGGAAGCCCCACAGGACAATCCGGGATGTGGGGGTATGCTGGGGCAGCCTTGACAGCGTCCACAGAGGGCACAGGAAGATCCCCAGGAACCCCGTCTCCAGAAGCTGGGACTCCCATCCTAAAACAACGAGACATACCAAAGGTGAGTTAATGGAAGCCACACATTTCACAAAGAAATCATTTCAGAAACTCAGTTTAATGGAAACGGTCCTTGAGACAGGGCTGATCTTGCTACTGAGAGACACCAGCCCGCACGTATTAGTCTCAACATCGACACGCAAGGTCAGGTCTGCAGGAGTGGGAGCTCTGGCGTGGGACCCAGGGCCTAGGTCGGGACTTCCTGTGACCTCGGCACCCTTCGCCCTGGAGGGAAAGGCCCCGCTCTGAGGTCCGCCACCTGCCACCCTGCAGGACGCTGCACGGACCTGACATCTGAGAATGCGCCCTGCACACATGCTGCCGGCAGACTTTGGGGGAAGCTTTTCCCCTCCCATAGGTTTGCATGAAAACAGCTTTCACCTTCTTCCCAGCCCAGAAACAGCATGGGGAGGCAGCACTGGGGAGGCAGCACTGGGGGGGCAGCACTGGGGGGGCAGCACTTGGGGGAGGCAGCACTGGGGGGGCAGCACTGGGGGGGCAGCACTGGGGGGGCAGCACTTGGGGGGGCAGCACTGGGGAGGCAGCAATGGGGGGGCAGCACTGGGGGGGCAGCACTGGGGGAGCAGCACTGGGGGAGCAGCACTGGGGAGGCAGCACTGGGGAGGCAGCCCAGCCTCCATGTGAGGCAGTGTCTCCCTCTGGCCCTGTCCTTCCCAGATGGGCATGGAAGCCAGGCAAGGATGCAGAGGCAGGTCATGGTGGGTCCACACGGAACCAACACCGGTCAGCCCCTCGCAGTCCCAGGATAAGGCAGCAGCTCCGCCACTGGATGCGGGGGACACGTGGGGGCCCAACGGATTCTTCGCACTGGAAACCCAGCATAAGAATGCGGATGCGGGTCGCCATTCCAGTGCTATTCTCAGAGGTGAGGCCACCGTGAATGTGGCTGCTGGAAACTGCCCACAGCTCGCGTCTGTCAATGGAAGGTCACATCCCAGGGCCCCAGAGACCCCACAGGCCGGGCTCCCTCCTGGGCTCTGAGGATGCTGGATGGGACAGAGGCCACCCGCTGCCCAGCATGACAACGATCACATGACTCACACCACCACAGTGTCTATGCGCCACAGAGCGGATGGGAGAGTGCGGAGGGGATGCAGACAGAGACTCGCAGGGGCAGCATCTACACACCACAGAGCAGATGGGAGAGTGCGGAGGGGAAGCGGACGGAGGCTTGTGGGGGCAGTGTCTACCTGCCACAGAGAGGACGGGAGAGTGCAGAGGGGAAGCAGACGGAGGCTCGCGGGGAGCTTCCTCCAACCATTGGTGCAACTCATCTCTACCTGAGATACTACGGTAAAGTCAAAAGCCCGTGAAGAGGCTGCTACAGCagcactggactgtaacccaaagtacaaaataaacgcctgcaagtccacactgatgtgcgccaattactgaataagcagatcggcgtgagtggaggcaGCGCGACCCTGGTCTCTGAATGGACAGACGGTCAGTCCTTATGCTGCCCCGGCTTATGGAGGGCACAGGCTGCCAAGCTGACGCCTGCTGGTCTCTCAGCGGGACCCCCTCCACCTCGCTCACGCCCCAGGCTCGCTGGGCCCCATCTTCCCCACGGAAGCCAGAGCCGCCTGGCTGGCTGGGCCTTGCGGACACCCTGGGAAGAAAAGGGTTGCCCTGGGCCCACCTGCTTCTGTTTTCTTTGCTTGGGTCTTGAGGAATTCCAGCAGCTGCGCGGCGTGCACAAGGGCTGCCATTGTTCTCCGCCTCAGCGTGGCGGACAACGCGTCCCCAGGAAAGTCAATAAGCAGCACGCTGCCAGGGCGGCCTCAGCGCCAAGGTCAGGGCCAGGGCTCTCCAGACAGCTCTCACCCAGCAAACACCAGCGCTGCCTGAAGCGAGCCCCAGGCACCCGAACGAGGCGGCAACACGCAGGGCCACAGCACACGCTGCCACTGCCGGGGAGAGGAGCCGTCCTCGCCCCCGCCTCAGTGCCTTTCCCGTTGCGCAGCTGCACGCGCTGCCTGCTGGGCGCCAGCATCTGCACGCCCTGCTCTTCCCCAGGGACCTCCCTTCCCTTTAGCCAGGGGGACGGCTCCGGGAGGGCCCCTGCTCCACTCCACGGCTCCGGCGTCGTTTCCACCTCGTGCTGTGCTGGGCCTTCCGGGAGACTGAGCACACCCTGTGAGGAGCCTGACGCGTTCTGCCTGGGTAACGGGGCAGTAGCTCTTGTGGGGAACATTCACTTCCACGGCCGCTGCTCTCCTTCCTGCGACACAGACAGCGTTGGCCCAATCAGCGGAGAAGCTGCATGTGCACGGTCCAGGGAGATGCTCCTGAGCCCTGCCCGCTGGACAGGGTGCGACACCCAACTCCTGCCCTGGCGCCTCGCCCGGTGCACCCATGTTAATGGCTCATTGCCGGCTGGATGCCCCGATGCTGGTGCGGAGGAAATGCAGGTGCCCCAGCACCCAGGCACAGCTGGGCACTGGTGCTTCTCAGCTGCCCTCCCCCTCAGGATTCATGCAGATCCACAGCCAGGCTGGTGCCCAAGGCAGGAGCCTGTGGCCTGCAGGCCCAGCCAGCGCTGCAGGTAACTGTACTGTGCCATTCACAGGCGTCTCGGGGCATCAGAAAAGGCAGAAACAAGGACGCAGCCTCATAACTGCCTTGCTGGAGACAGTTTAGGGTTTGAAGGCTCTGGATGTCAGGTCTGCAGCCACCGGAGGCGTGGGGCACACAGAAGAGAGGCTTCGCCATGGGGCAGCCCGAGGCACATGGCGAGGCCAGGGCCAGACCTGCAGGCCCCCGACACCCCGACAGGGATTCTGACGCCTCGGTTTATAATGGAAATTTAAGATGAAATACTCGGAAGAGAAAATCTGCAGACAATGGCGAATGCCACATGGCGCCTCTTGGAGTGGCTTCCCAGAGCTCTAGACTTTGGAATCAGTTCTCACCATTGTTGATGGGCCGCGAGGCCTGGGCGGCTGCAGCTACACGCACGGTCTTCTGAGGCCCTACGAGATGCTGAGCCCTGGGGACAGGGACATCCCCACCACTGCAACCTGGGCCACCCCGACCCCTCCTAGGAGGGGAGATAACATCTCCACCACTGCAACCTGGGCAGTCCCTGACCCCTCCTGGGAGGGGAGCAAACGTCTCCACGTTGAAGGGGGACTGCAGGTTGCTTCAGTACAAACCCTTCCAGCACCCTGTGAAGACAGCCCTGACCCAAATGGGGAGAAGGCTGGGCAGGCCAAGACCCGGGGAGGCTCCCCACACCCGACCTTCCTGCTCTGCAGGACACAGACCGGATGCTCACTCGTAGGGTCCACGAGAGAACGCACACCGCTGTGGGCCCTGAGCCCCGTGATCGCTCCAGCTCTCCAAGTGCAAAACCAGACACGCTCCCTCCCTCCCTTCCATGACCATTGGTGACACACTCCCTCCCTCCTTCCCATGACCACTGGTGACACACTCCCTCTTTCCCTCCCTTCCCATGACCACTGGTGACACACTCCCTCCCTCCCCATGACCATTGGTGACACACTCCCTCCCTCCTCATGACCATTGGTGACACACTCCCTCCCTCCCATGACCATTGGTGACACACTCCCTCCCACGACCATTGGTGACACTCTCCCTCCCTCCCCATGACTATTGGTGACACATTCCCTCCCTCCCTCCCTTCCCATGACCACTGGTGACACACTCCCTCCCTCCCTTCCCATGACCATCTCCCTCTCTCCCATGACCATTGGTGACAAAATTTTACTGCCTTGGAATCAGATGGAAACGTGGTTTCTCTGAACTAAATATCCGAGTGCTAATCAGTAATGTTCCGTAGTGACTGACGCAGAGGGCCACACAGCTCTCAGCCCTAAATCGGCGTCTCTAAGGACTCCGGCCTCGCTGCTGCCTGCTCGGCTGGCCCAGGAGGGGCATCCCCCGAGGCCTGAGGGCTTGTAGGGTTTTCACCATCTCGTGCTCGCTTCCTAGATGGCAGGGTCCTGGGCTACTTGTTTTAATACCACTGATTTAAAAACAGCTAAAGAAAAACTCACCCTAGATCCGCCTCTGCAGAGCCAAGGGGCGACCAAGGGATGACTCTGGGGACATTCAGGCTGGGCAGGCCCTGTGTGCATAGGTGTGAGGCATGGGTATGGATGGGTCTGAAACACCAGAGGAGCCAGGCACAGGATGGGGGCAGAGGGCAGGCAGAGACCACAGGGTGGTGCGGAGAGCCCTCTTCATCCTCACAACGGCCGGGGTCCCTCACTCCGCAGCCAAGCTCCTAGGCACCTGCTCCCCAAATAAAACCCAGGCAGAGGTGCGTGCTCACCTTTCTTTTCTATTTATGGGAATCAGAGGTTGAGGAGGGACCCTCTGCCACTGAAGAACCAGAAGATTCTCCACCAAGAGGCGAGATCTGCGCCTGGCGGCCTGGGGCATGTGGGAACATGTGGAGGGGCACCTGGCGGCTGCTCTGGGCTGGGCTGGGCAGCCGGCAGCACACTCATGCACCACCAGCCTTGGCGACCCCAGTCAGAGGATGGAGGGTCCCAGGCCAGCCTAGGGACAGGGTGCAGTGCTGGCCAGGCAGAGTGCTGGGGTGGAGCCTGAGATGGGGTTTTCCGGACGGAAGTCCTGGAGGCCAGCAGCCGTGTGGGACGAGAGACACGCAGGGTGGGGCGACTGCGGTGCCTCAGGCGGGTGAGATGAGCACCATCACCGGGGGCCGGAGCAGGTGAGATGCAGGGGCCGGAGCACGTGGGACGCGGGGGCCGGAGCAGGTGAGACTTGGGGGCCTGGGGCAGGTGAGACTCAGCAGCTGGGGCAGGTGACACCCAGGCGCTGCCTGGCCACCAGTGAGGGGCAGAGGCTCGGAGGGTGCAGAAGGTGTGCAGGGTGGGGGCAGCCCTCAGGACACAGGGAGGGACACGGGGTAGCCTCCGGCAAAGGGAGGGATGAGGGGCCAGTGGGTTGTGGGCTGAGCCGCCTCTGACCAAGGAAGAAACGTGATTTAACACAACGCTTTGGAGGTGCAAGTCATTGCAATGGCCACTGTAGGAGAGAACGCCAGCTGAGGCCTCATTAACTCTGTGGAAACTATTTTAGTTACTTAGGGAGAGTCATTAAATATAGCACAGATGGATCCTTCAAAAATGACAGCCACCATCCACGTTAGAAACAGGAAATCCATTAAGTTCGCTGTTAAAATCGGGGACGAGGGAGCAAAGCGCTTCCATCTTGACTGCCTGTCACTCAGCTCTGCGCCGGGCCGCCCTCTGCCACCCCAGGGGCTTCTAATGGCGGCCCCAGAGAGAGCTGGGAGCTTTTAAAAGTTTCCTTCATTTTTACAGGTTATATTTTAAGCTGAAAAGTTATGAAATAGCACTGCAAATCTTACTTTGCACTATCACGGAACAGGGGCTGTGGGCTACAGACGCCCCTGGGGCTGGATGATGGGGGCTGGGGAGTTCGGCTCTCGCTGCGCGCCAGTGGCGGGGCTGGGCACTGGTAGGCCACACCCACATGGCCCCGGGACACCAGGTGGCCTTGTCTGTGATCCGCCCACATGCAGAGCCCCAGACCCCACTTCTCCATGTCTCTGGCCACGGGGAAAACATCTTTTGTGACCATGTTTGAAAAAGCTTCAGAGGGACAAGTGCAGGCTCTGCCACTGAGGCCTGCGGCCTTGGGATGCCTCGTTGGCTCCCTGGCAGCAAATGAAGGTATGTCAGGAACACCCCTCTCCTGGCAACTAGCCACCTCCCGGGTGTCCCCTCGCAGATCCTCTGAGTGTTGAGCTCCGGGTCTGTTATGGCCATTGCTCTGCACAGCCAGCTCTGGGATCCCCTGAATATTGAGCTCCGGGTCTGTTACGGCTATTTCTCTGCGCAGCGAGCTCTGAGAGCATGAGTACTGCTCAGCGTCGGGGATGGAGACGCCACCCAGGGGCTGCCATGCTGCAAACTCATCTTGAAGGCAGAGCTAAAGTCACGTGTATGGGGCCATCTGCAGCCCAGCACACAGAAGCAATCCTGTGGGGAACCAGGCCCAAAGCCACTCTCATGCCGGTACCATGGGGGACGGGTCACCACCATCTCACCTCCCCCAAGCACATGGGCAACACACAGCCATGGTGTGGCCACGCAGAGCACATGCTGCGCAGGCCCACGTGAAGAAATGCCACACGTGTGCACTGCGGGCGGGCACAGGCCCACGTGAAGAAATGCCACATGTGTGCACTGCGGGTGGGCGCAGGCCCACGTGAAGAAATGCCACACGTGTGCGCTGCGGGCGGGCGCAGGCCCACGTGAAGAAATGCCACACGTGTGCGCTGCGGGCGGGCGCAGGCCCACGTGAAGAAATGCCACACGTGTGCGCTGCGGGCGGGCGCAGGCCCACGTGAAGAAATGCCACACGTGTGCGCTGTGGGCGGGCGCAGGCCCACGTGAAGAAATGCCACACGTGTGTGCTGCGGGCAGGTGCCGTTCTAGGGGCTTGTCCAGGCCCGCTGACCCCTCCGGCTCACTGGAGATGACCAGGCAGGGCTGCCCTCCCCTAAGAGACATGCCTGCCCCCGTACCGGGGCTGTTTGCAGGGGTGCTGGGAGGTCCTGATGTCAGCCCCACCCCAGAGGTGTCCCAGGGGACAGGAGTACTGCTGTGCTCGCCCGGCACCCCCGGCCTCCTCCTGACCGTGGGCTCCTTCCCTCCTCTGGGATTGACCAGGCTGTGTCTGGAGTGGACTGCAGCTCCCTGGCCTGTGGTCACCCAGAGCCAAGCTCTGCACAGGAACCTCCAGAACCGGCCTGAGCTTCACAGCTGCGTCTGCCCGCTGGCCATGTCTCACGTCCTGAGGACGTTTCACAGGAGGGCCGCCCTTCTGCTGCCCGCAAGACATACAGGTGCAGAGCTGGGGACATGGCGTCGGGACGTGGCGCGGGGCGGCTGGCTGGGTTAAACCAGAGATCAGATGGCAAATGGGAGGGCATTTTCTAGTAACCAGACATCTCTGAAAGTGCTGGTTAAGGGCTTTCGTGCTTTAGATAAAATTACGTTAACTGCACGCTCTCAGTTATGAGGAATTTCGTGGACTGTTACATATTTTAAGGCTGTCCGTGGGCGCTGCCGAGAAACAGGAAGTGGCCTCAGTGACCCCTGCGCCCGGCCGCGCGGCTTGTTCGTACTTGGTTGCCGTGACAACCAGACTTCCTAGCCCCAGGTGTCCCTGTGGCTCAGCTCTGTGCAGGTGTCACCAGCTCTTGGGAAACAAATCCGCAGTAATGACCTTAGCTATCTTTATTGGTTTTGGATAAATACGAAAATGCTTCCCGTCCACGGAAATTAGACTTCGCGGCAAAGAGTGTTTAGGATTAATGTGTTCCAAGTATTTCACCTAAGTCAGGCTGGTGGGCACCACACCTGACCATTTCTTTGTCTTTTGTGTCCCGGGCATGAAAAATGGCTGAAGTGTGCCGAGCCTCCAAGGGACTCATGAGACCCCAGAAAAGTGCTGGCCATCGTGGGCTGCGGGGACGTTGTGCCCACGGAGCTGTCCTGGGTCACGGGGTGTGCCTCAAGGGCCCCGGCCCTTCAGGCCTTGAGGCACTCAAAGGCAGCCTGCGTGGCTGAGAAGCACATTTTAAATCACATTTAACTTTGGTTCACTTGGATGTGAATTTAAGTGACCACGCGGGGCCGACGTCCCGGGGCGCACCCCGACTCTCACGCGGGGCCGGCATCCCGGGGCGCACCCCGACTCTCACGTGGGGCCAGTGCCCTGGGGTGCACCCTGACTCTCAGCCAGTCCTGGGGTGGGCGCCTGCTCAGAGACACCTGTGGGATGTGGGTCTCACTCCCGAGTAGCGGTGGGACGAGCTCTCGGCACCTGCTCCTCCCACGGGGCCTCCTGGGCTGGAGCCCGCACAGCACAGTAGCATCCACATCCCTGCTGTGACACCTGTGTGGGCAGTCGGCATGTCGGCGTGGACTCCCAGGCTGCAGAATCAGGTGTTCCCCTCACCACACAGTCTCGGGGGACAGTCTGTTTTCACTCGCGGCTTTTCCAGACCCTCCCCTGACACTCGGCAGTCGGCGTTTCCAGGTGTGCTCAGTGTGGCCAACAGGCACGATCCACCCCACGTGGAGGGTGGTGTGTCCAGGGGCTATGTGAGCTCACACACTCACAGGGAAGGAACGTGGGGGTTGGCACACCTGAGAAGTGGGCGGGAATCACCCCACATGCCCGCGGCAGGGGGCAGGGCAGCCCTGTGGCCTCTGCTTCATCTCTGTCAGGACCTATGGTGGACACACACAGCTCCTGCCCCACCTTCATCACTGCTGAGCCCCCCTGGGAAAGCTCATATCTCCAGCGCTCGCGTGAGGACAGCAGTGCCGGCAGCACCAGGGCACAGGCCCCACAGACAAGGGGCCCGGAGGCCGCTGGGGGCATTCCACCCACAGACCCGCTCTGGACAGTGTGCGCCCTCAGAGGCAGGGAGGGCGTCTGGACCGCAGTCTCATGTGGGTCACTCTTGGGGGCCTCGGGCAGCAGCAACTGAAGGAGGCAGTGATGACCTCAGGCCCACGTCCTGGAGGTCTTGGGGAGAAAGACAGGAAGTGTTTTCCTAGAAACACTGGTGTGCAGAGAGGACTGGGTTTCAGCTACATCATGTGGCAGGGCCGCCCTGGGAGGAGCCTCACGGAGACCCACAGACAGAACGTGGGGGTGAGGGTGAAGCAGCCAGCATCCACAATGGGCTCCCCACCCCACAGCTCCGCCCCGGGACCCCCTTCCTCCGAGGCAGTCAGGCTCCTGCCCCCGGCACCATCCTTCCGGCCTCGGTCAAGACTGCCCGGACACCACCTCCAGGGCCTTGCTGGACAGGACATCCACACTGGCCCCAGCCTGTCGGCCCCCAGCACAACATCTGCACCGGCCCTGGCCCGTCGGCTTAGCCCCCAACACGACATCCACAATGGCCCCAGCCTGTCGGCTCCCAACAGGACATCCACACCAGCCCTGGCCCGTCAGCTGGGCCCCCAACAAGACATTCACACTGGCCCTAGTCCGTCGTCCCCCAACATGACATCCACACTGGCCCTGGCCCGTTGGCTCGGCCCCCGACACGACATCCACACCGGCCCCAGCCCGTCAGCCCCCACAGCACGCACTGCATGTCCACATTCCCCTCTCTACACACCACACCCCAAGCGCTGGCTCCACACGGACGCAGGAAAGCATCAGGACCGGAAAGCACAGGAAAACGTGCTTGCCAGGCAGGCGGGCTGGAGAGCTGAGCAGAGACACAGAGCCTCGGAGGAAGGCCAGGCCCACTCCAGAGCAagaactaaaatctccagagcacaaatgcccctggctgagctcagcagcagagtgaagaacgaaagaaaaggcagtgaacacgaagacatagcagccacagtgactcattctagagatgagaggcttttagaaaacaccacacagaagcacagggcccaggagctcgtggaaggcagggagaggcctgatgtccatgtccgtggagccacaggagaggagaaagaacatggggcaacccccccaaatattggcaaaaattatccaaatttggtaaaaagtaggcatatcatagtcaagaaactgGCAACGGAAGATAAAATCCCCAAAGCCATCAGAGAAACATAACACGTTACACTGGAACGTCAGGAATGATAGTCGACTTCCCGTCCAAAACGAGGGACAGATGGAGAGAGGGAGCCAGGCGCGGATCCTTCCCCAGGGGCCCCTGCATGCCCAGAGCAAGCATCTGCAGGCATCTCCAGCAGCAAAGGACACCGCTGTTCTCCCCGGGGAGCTTCAGTGTCATCAGAGCCTGAAGGAGGAAGCAACTCGGCACCACGTGGCCCAGAGCAGGCTCGTGAGCTGGCCTCGGTCAGCAGGTCGCCTGGGTCTCTGTCTCAGTGCTCAGCAGGGCGAGGACAGGACAGAACGGGCCCCATCACAGACTGCGCTTAGAAGGAACTCAGTAAAACAAAGACCATTTTCTTCTGGAGGCAACTCAAGGAGGTAAGACTGTGAGTCAAGCGCCTTGGAGGATAAGAAGTCCAGGTAAGTAGAAGGCAGGAGGAAGCTTCCCTAATATCACCTGCAAATCTGCTTCCACTGGGGCATTCTGTTCCCCTTTTCAGACAGCGCAGAGCCCTCCTGCGGTGAACAGTCGCCATAGCCCTTCTTGAGGGGCTGCTGGGTCCAAGACCTCCTGGGTGGGCACACGGACCTGCGCTCCCTGCAGAGACGTGGACAAGGCAGGCCCTGTGGAAAGTTCACCCGCCAGCCAGGCACCGGCACAAAGCCAAACCCCCCGGCGGAGTGTGTGGGGGCAGGGACAAAACGCTCCACGCGTTCTCACAGGGACTCGCCCTTAGAACAAGACAGCTGTATCTCTGTACAAATGCGGGCGGTGACGAGTGGGGATGACGGGACTTTCTGGGGTGACGGCCACTCCCTATACCTTGATGGGGCTCGTGCAAGTTCTTTATGGAGGGAAAGACGCAGTGTGCGGTGAGTTCCAGCTAATGATGTGGGAAGCATTGACACCAGCCCCACCCTGATGTGCGCTGAAGCACCGACGCAGGGACGGGGGACACGGGCGAGGAGACCCACTACGTAACAACGCAGCAAACCCCGTGAACAGAACCTACGGCATCCAGGCGGTCCCCGTGCGGGTTTTACTATACAATTCTTAGGAGAAAAACAAAGGTTAAAAGGTTTGAAATGTAAAAAAGATTGACTACATAGAAAATTTAAAAACAAAACATAAGTAAGAGAATCTACAGAAATAGGCTTAGCCGCTGAGAGGTGTTAGCAAGGTCTGGGCGGAACATTAAAAATCCTGTGAGTGGGCCTGGAAACCAGCGTTCCCCCACAGCTGAGGAGTAAGGGGAGAGAAGCAGCTGTTTATCCCAGATGAGGTCCAGAGAGACGCATTCCAAGCAGCCAACACGGGACAGAGGCGATGAGGGAGGGCGGCCTGGACAGAAAACTTCCAGGCAGATCGGGGCACCCTGTCTCGCAGGCCCAGCCATGCTCCTTGGCAGCAACCACCCAGGGGCTTTCTCACAGGCAGACCAGGGCAGCCTCTGGTCCCTGCACAATCTCGCCTCCGATGCAAGGTGGGAGAAGGCAGCCACCTCCCGAGGGGGGCCACAGAGGGGGTTCTGATCCAGCTGTGAGCTCTCACCCCCAGCCCACAGCGACTGGTAGCCAGGTAGGCAGAATGGCAGGCAGAGCGGCCACTGGGGAACTGATCCAGCAGGACCTGAAGCAGGGAGACAGCACACGGGCGTCCACCTAACGTGGCCAGCCCTTGTGTGGACAAACAGCTGAGAAAAGGCATTACTAACATGGACGTGAAGAAAGTCGCCTCGGTTTTTGGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGTGTCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTCTGAAAGTCGCCTCGGTTTTCTGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGTGCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTGTGAAAGTCGCCTGGGTTTTCGGGTGTGATGTGGTATTGGTGTCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTGTGAAAGTCGCCTGGGTTTTCGGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGCGTCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTGTGAAAGTCGCCTGGGTTTTCGGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGCGTCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTGTGAAAGTCGCCTCGGTTTTCGGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGTGTCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTGTGAAAGTCGCCGGGGTTTTCGGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGTGTCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTGTGAAGGTCGCCTGGGTTTTCGGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGTGTCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTGTGAAGGTCGCCTGGGTTTTCGGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGTGTCGTGTTGTTGCGAAGGCCCTGTGTGAAAGTCGCCTGGGTTTTCGGGTGTGATGTGGTGTTGGCGTCGTGTTGTTGCAAAGGCCTGTCTTCAGGTGTACGAGGAGGCATTTCCAAATGCAGGAATGTGATGCCTGGGATCTGCGTCATGGCAAAACAGCAGGGGCAAGGAGTGTGGGGCGGATGTGGCAGCTGCTAACACTGGCACGGTGCACTGTGGCCTACGAGGGTCCCCAGCTGTCCACAGTTCATTCCTCCCCATTGCGTGGCTTCCTGAACAGCcatgtatttcctaactctgccggctgaggggctgagaagctgcagcaccccagtagtaacgggcaccccagcacccacgtcttggtctctaaacaccttccccactaaagcatcaggcttctcagggaagccaatagtcccggctactcaggaggctgaggtggcagcacagcttgagcccagtaggttgagactagcctgagcaacagagcaagatcccagctctaaaaaagagaaaTCCTCCCTAAGAGCACTGCTTTAGAAGGACGTGGAGGAGGGGCTGTGGACTCTGAGCCTTACCCTCAATACAATGAGGTCACCTGCTCCTGGGAACCATCTTAGGATCCCTGGAATGGGCAGAGGGACAAACTCATCAGTGGCCCCCAATCTGGCAGAGTTAACCTGCCCCACAATCTCCAAATCCAGAGGCCTACAAAGCATCTGCTCCAAGCAGTAACAATGAGGTCCTGAGCGGAAATCTTCACAAAGTGGagagaaaaaactgatggattgtccaatgtgtttgattctgtaaaaacaacagtattggaaagggttgaccagttgtgctggtaaagttggaacaaatgagtgagatatgatcagagatgaaaaacgaagccaatcaaaatagaaaaggcaactatgaactccaggaaaaatgaagagttattagaaaaaaagttactatagttcactatttggctcagcagtcacaatatttacagagtcaaaataatgtaaagacaatcaaactaataaaaattatacttgtgacacagctatactgatgatgatgagaagaacattagggtgtgtgagggcaatccctgtcgttcataagaggacatgtatacacagtgtctaaccgtggtatgcgaagaataacccatataaacctatcagtcagaaagacagacaaataccagagttaagtgcaggaagtgataaaagggttgtctggagaacagcatgtggctgagaagtggtacggcaagggcttctgtttttattataagtcgtgtaatacaatttgactattcatgcacatgcccatttttttttaataaTTAAAAGAACAATCTTCAGGCCACACTGGCCACAGTGTAATAAAATCAAAGTTGAGAAACAAAAGGCCACCTGTAAAACCCTGAGCATGTGGCATTTTCGAAGCATTTCTCCAGGCTGTCCTTGGTCTAGAGGCATTAGCGCTGAAGGTTATAAAACCACACCATCGGCCACTGTCAGGGGCAGCCGGGGGTCTCAGATGACAGGGTAGGGCAGGGACATACCCAGAAGTGGGTAGCCGCCCTCCAGTTGGCTTTCATTAGCAGAGAAGAAGAGACAGAAAATAGCTGAACCAACTCCAGGCACTGGAAATGATAAACCACTTTCTCCCAGAAAAAGCAAGCAACTACAAGAGGCAAAAACGAATGAGCTAGAGTATATTTTAAAATTCTGATAGATAAAACCAGCTCTTTGAAAAGACCCATAAAGGGGATGATCTATGGCGGTTTAGGCAAGGGAGAGTGAGGAAAAGGAGGAAACAAGTATTGAGGCCCAGGCGGGAGAACGGATGCAGACCTGCTAGGGGGTGGCAAGGCCACCGCACAGACTGTGCCCTCCAGCCGGCAGCGGGGGGTGGAGGGGAGGAGCGGGTGCAGTCAGACCCCCGTCCGCAGAGTGCTGGGTGCGAGTCCCCAAATGCCTGCTGGGCTGAGCTGCCCCCTGCGGAATGGGTGGTGACGAAACCGCCCTCTTCAGCCACACAGGAAGCCCCTTGCTCACTGTCACTGTCACTAATCCACTAGGAATGAAGAGCAGATGCCACCAAACATCCTGCATCCATACAGTTAAAAACAATTAAAAAGCCACGTTGAAGATTCTAGATTAAAGCCACTCAAGTGGATTCAGCACTGGAAGTATGAATCACAGCAACAAAACACTTCTTCAGTAGTTTAGAATTCTGCATAGTAAAGAGAATTTTTTAAAACAGAAATGGCTAACAACGTGATGGGAGAAATTCAAAACCAACAAAATGTTAATGATCGTGTGAATGAGACAAAATGGCCTTTAAAATCTATTTTCTGGGAgggcgtggtggctcatgcctgtaatcccctaaagcactttgggaggtcaagagaggaggacagtttgagcctaggagttcaagaccagcctggacaacatagcaagaccctgtcactataaaaaagaaaataaaaaaattaatcgggtgtggtggttcatgcctgtggtcctagctacttgggaggctgaggtgggaggatcacttgagtctgcggaggtcgaggctgcaatgagccgtgattgtgccagtgcagtccagcttggacaaatgagcaaggccctgtctctgaagaaaaaCTATATATATATGCTTTTCTTCTAGGTTCAACTTAGTAATTTTCACCAGATATTAGTAAGTGAAAAAAAGGGAATGAAAGAAATGTATCTAATATGGCCCTGTTTGAGTAAAGCAAACATTTACCCCTAAATCCtgtatgtgcatctgcatgtgtgtctgtgtgcatgtgcacgtgtttgcatatgatctgcatatgtgtctgtgtgtgcacgtgtgcacgtttgcatatgatctgcatacgtgtctgtatgcatgcatgcatgtgtgcttgcatatggtctgcatacctgtgtgcgcatgtgtgcacacgtttgcatataatctgcataggtgggtctgtatgcccatgtgtgcacgtttgcatATGATCTGAATATGTCTgtgtgtgcatgcgtgcacctgtgtttgcatatgtgcatacgcgtgtgcacacatttgcatatgatctgcatacgtgggtctgtgtgcgcgtgtgcacgtttgcatatgatctgcatacgtatgtctgtgtgtgcatgcatgcacctgtttgcatatgatctgcatacgtgtctgtgtgcatgtatgtgcgtgtTTGCATAAGATCTGCAGgtctgtgcgcatgtgtgcacgtgcttgcatatgatctgcattgtgtcatgtgtgtagtttgcgtatgatctgcatatgcatctgtgtatgtccatgtgtgctcgtgtgtttgcacaggatctgcatacgtgtgtctgtgtgtgcgcatgtgcgcacgtgtgtttgcacgtctgtgtttgggtACAAATCTGAGTTGGCATGAAGATAAGAATGGACGGAACCGGGAGGTTAACACGGGGTGGATGTAAATTAGATGAAAAAAGACTACCCTCAAAACAAGCGCCACCAAAGAAGACTACCCTAAAAACAAGCGCCACCAAAGCTGCGCACGCACATGTGTGAAGAAGGTGGAACCCGGCACCACGGCCCACACCCTAAGGGGTCCCGGCATCCACCCAGAGGCTTCCTCTCCTCCTTCACTGTGCTGGCTGCATGCAGGACCCAAGGGACCCTGCAGGTCACAGCCAGGATGTCAGCTGCTCCCCGGGTCCCCATTTGCCACCTCTCCTCTCTGTGAGTCCTCCCCTTCTAGCCATAGGAGTCCTCCCTGGACGGCACCCCGGGCCTATGCTGGGGTCCCTGTGGCCCAAGAAGACAGCCTGGCAAGTAGTGACAGAGAAGCCACCAGGCGAGAACACCACTCCTGGAGCCAAGAAACACCCCGAGACCCCAGTGGAGAGCACTGGAGGGTCCAGAAGGGCCACTGCACCCAGGCGGAGACTCAGGCCCAGAGGCCTCCAGAGATGGAGCCGAGTCTGAGGGCAGCCTCTCCTTCTCTCATGGCCAACCAAGGGCCGCTCATGGTGAGGAAGTGGCAGAAGCTGCTCAAGAGCCCTTTCTCACCTTGGAAATGGCCCGTGGAGATGGCTCACAGCTAGCCCATGTCACGTGGCGGGCTCTAAAAGTCACCCAAGTGGGCTTCCCTGTCCTTCCTATGAAGAACACGACCAGACACTGAGACCAGAGACACGCAGGACCACAGTCATTCACGCCCCAGGTGACAGGGAAGGGCTCTGCCTCCCGGTTTGAGGGAACCCTCTGGAACCACGCTCTACAGGATGCTTCTCCCCCAGGGAGGGGCCGTGCAATTAAATCAACACAGGAATGCAAGAGAAAGGACCCAGAGAGGAGCTGGCTCGGCCTACCGGTTGCAGCCCGGCAGCTGAGCGAGCTCACGGCAGAGGCCGTGGAGGCTGCCTCTGATTAGGGAATAATTTAATTAAAAGAAACTGCATCCCTGACCCTGGGAGCTGGGAAGGGGAGGGAAGGGCCATCAGCTAAAGCAGGGACAGGAGGGCGGGGACTGGGGCTGCTTGGTGGAGCCTGGTGCAGCCCAGGCGGAGCTCACCCGGCGATCGCTTCCCGCAGGCAGGCTCTGCTCCAGCACTAATAGGGCTTAATAAAAACTTCCAGTTGGGCCAGTGAACCCCTCATTAAGCTGTTTTTAAAGCACGAATTTAAGAGCCGCAAGGGTGAAGGGTCACAGGGAGCATTTAATTCACAATGGCTGGCGGGAGGTGCTGCCGCAATGGAAAACACCCTAGCCCAGTGTCTGGGGCCCCGCACACGCACGGCGACACTTGGCCTGTGCGGGGACAGCCTAGAAAGCAGACCTGAGAGGTGGGGAAGTTTCCCGCTTGGCAAGAGCACAGCAGCAAAACCCAGGAGGGGCCTGGTACGCTTGGAAAGCCTCCGAATGTAGCGACAAATAACCGAATTCCAGCACAACCTGCAACGAAACCTGGGCCGCGGCCCCACA